[Music] [Music] you hello is this working yeah it's working hi everybody we are now starting the meeting let's just jump right into it there's two items on the agenda talking about the Rob's tennis shoes and wind fork so let's figure those things out so we had the Rob stenographer last Sunday I guess or Saturday so a little bit of an opportune time we had some issues during the during the fork and if could anyone volunteer to just give like a high-level overview of what happened I know there were multiple issues because there were that both client issues and also a lack of preparation for miners mining on the wrong fork or mining to speed up the block hat or the block times and things like that so is anyone volunteer to just kind of go over some of the points and then someone else can cover the others I'm happy to do this thank you go ahead and so I was at home in front of a computer when I noticed that the hard facts coming much yeah as we discussed last Friday so it happened two days earlier than expected from what I understand on a Saturday Berlin it was evening it was very unfortunate timing for myself but I decided to just sit and fall of the computer and make a nice screenshot of our successful yeah it just never happened you know so what happened is first issue client releases we are very late so we just released in one week of of the fork post guess and he was even will you 24 hours before walk released and nobody was mining the Constantinople shame from what I could observe on rocks the dashboard is that which Santiam chain was mind was very higher hash rate and literally nobody was mining on Constantinople we tried to find - that we are willing to synchronize the Ross chain and put some hash power on one Constantinople side of things and took us like two hours to get this block of mind and then we started discovering like so first consensus issue between gas and parity I think we later discovered Moorish peace but that's probably a yes how many was for some reason using wrong config and just following the pitch antium chain I think that's a quick overview from events yeah I think that's a good overview does anyone have anything else to add as far as kind of what went wrong okay cool yeah that that pretty much covers it the other thing would be we didn't have a lot of good ways to monitor what was happening and what was the canonical chain not that there was at times a canonical chain we kind of didn't know for sure because the split was happening live but we just had a Rob Stinson ATS page that parity setup and we didn't have a fork monitor like we usually do so that's something we should probably correct for next time I think people have been on the agenda suggesting different things that we should be accomplishing and I think that we can definitely commit to some of these at the end this call as far as we should what we should probably do because we kind of wanted to try to keep this to about an hour we might want to skip - - and talk about when the fork is gonna happen on main net before we talk about all the things we're gonna do to fix stuff unless someone thinks that's a bad order of things the reason I wanted to do it that way is because we kind of know what went wrong hopefully we're going to know how to fix it but we kind of need to decide if this is still gonna happen and late November or if we're gonna push this back to January or February so anyone can speak up on when they think the fork should happen can you hear me yes I can yeah just a thought sorry I'm Samwell teammate adjusting my audio streaming here cool I don't know from my perspective it might be helpful to work backwards and figure out like what things need to happen in what order right so for example there's an open question about whether we want to sort of redo a new fork and does that happen on to be sort of rollback perhaps didn't do it again profs didn't we you know need to do is come another proof-of-work chain I guess I'm just saying like throwing darts and just just calling on a date is less helpful than talking through the process and what should unfold in what order that make sense yeah that definitely makes sense and Aleksey had another good idea on the agenda I think he said we're not rolling back Rob Stinson keep testing things there but he proposes regularly spawning and mining temporary test stats to test transition into Constantinople which i think is a cool idea so that we can kind of do it on like a little baby test net that if something goes wrong we'll know pretty quickly and we can even I mean is it's possible to bring in like basically clone Rob Stan and then mine it as a separate test net right like just from a certain block number so it's technically possible to take a networking and kind of but so I think there are kind of several things going on there so regarding what went wrong with Robson I would say what went right is that we successfully managed to find a consensus error in in the tested deployment and that was really good what went wrong in my view was that we kind of had a disability into the various Forks and it would have helped us more to have that visibility and as far as consensus testing goes I'm pretty me I think it's bye-bye now pretty well tested the actual changes for Constantinople others may have different opinions but that's my personal opinion and regarding the actuals you know transitioning from one set of rules to another while that is interesting I don't really see how I actually don't think it is very interesting to do that in real time something interesting is doing you know observing this little work that we got and how different clients react and when they try to reorder and forth and hammer out those kind of issues but I don't know if that's particularly you know it doesn't really have anything to do with Constantinople per se just an interesting thing that we should do to stress as the clients under bad Network conditions can you speak to the status of the different fuzzers including guiteau's fuzzer because i had a conversation with casey the other day and it sounded like from his perspective there needed to be a little bit more time to get whatever I think it's maybe just limp fuzzers what whichever one Ito's fuzzer is up and running again because it's a little bit unmaintained is that accurate yes that is accurate so what we're doing passing on a less refined engine the less the same kind of engine that found the bulk of the consensus issues before last heart for something and that's that's been running it's running 24/7 about its per second okay cool and so okay so we're thinking that's sufficient for the testing infrastructure as a whole it sounds like right I wouldn't say that but I mean we have the manual tests that are still being written we have the actual rollout on Rob's stem and we have the first tests of course it would be great if we can also have the more refined fastest from Lib Foster and it would be great if we had even more people to write manual tests about but I mean at some point we have to say are we satisfied now or do we feel that there are more quirks that need to that we need to find okay interesting so we have kind of an overview of where we are testing wise which i think is another good place to kind of approach in this meeting so something else that went wrong as we weren't coordinating with minors on the test net until the very last second so I know the foundation had a minor that we started running so we have that resource we have some minors in the ecosystem who came in and helped and that was really important I think that we need to coordinate a little bit better to switch the hash power over before actually having a test net fork and a big problem with all of this as kind of pinpointing who the point person is for this stuff a lot of it might just default to me because I'm doing these and stuff and kind of assessing or afterwards like looking at the notes and seeing what went wrong but I'm definitely happy for anyone else to kind of speak up and say I'll take this piece of it especially for things like the fork monitor I actually I think Nick Johnson originally made that and I don't know if anyone keeps up with it now or if we even have a repo of it that's the focus yes the fork monitor the one I yeah yeah I think it's more less unmaintained right now is it open-source though it is Oh wonderful okay I hadn't seen the repo yet now I will pick it up and posters new york or games channel awesome thanks okay so that's something we need to fix I think before the next time we test again on on a test network from or not from scratch but the next time we launch a test on a test network that's if we decide not to roll back Rob Stan or are we rolling back Rob stand is anyone have an opinion on that cuz I heard that mentioned a few times but I didn't think it was that popular of a position oh hey Hudson sorry I need to unmute this tribute as well so I mean I think Alexia's arguing for that for a while and then I hope I'm not miss coding him here but I think he said it's sort of other idea which is having a bunch of like baby test beds instead not rolling back raphson I see okay so I must have seen it from Alexi that sounds good can I ask a follow-up question Hudson yeah sure but the role you were describing a moment ago I think historically it was the case that like 3m upgrades are hard courts had some person designated as like a release manager or something and correct me if I'm wrong but I do think that someone in some sort of a project management role here to coordinate a lot of this stuff would be helpful doesn't always have to be the same person doesn't have to be one person but you know what I mean yeah I don't think we've ever had a release manager have we I think you are for the last one weren't you awesome I didn't call myself that but I think I kind of acted in that role yeah I like helped monitor and got a lot of the groups together so yeah I pretty much acted in that capacity but I'd love someone else who is more technical than I am and understands the network more to either do it or help out so I think someone will probably step up between now and the next time we have a problem I hope so we've kind of just to recap what we've talked about so far we're not rolling back Rob Stan we need to coordinate more with with minors on when we switch over hash power and that also includes main that I believe we need to make sure that the release time between you know when we release a client and when the fork happens is sufficient so to me that number looks like at least two weeks or something like that maybe longer what's it what's a good time for that does anyone have kind of rough idea sorry porridge for releasing a client before the fork actually happens because traditionally we've done it very soon before a fork but it should probably be something like two weeks or or more right so have them that kind of ties into the thing we discussed last meeting about actually when we release that client with the number of the second stone or will the number not be set in stone and should we have some capability to signal the block number or to manually set the block number that is yeah that's actually a good idea so if we're already doing a signaling method could the signaling method also inject a block number into the clients is that kind of what you alluded to so I mean like the the the the option that we've done before is that a couple of weeks weeks earlier we release a client which has a hard-coded switchover block number and if we one week after that decide to push the Constantinople or whatever then we need to release the totally new client with another hard-coded number another option would be to well I mean Constantinople is already the functionality is there and all the clients we could add a command-line switch so that when you start it you tell it the fork number and thus it would be up to the users to specify or override maybe that would be one naive option of doing it which means that we would have to actually have to issue that's clients if we want to push their release could you hard code a smart contract address that like a multi-sig group of us put in the block number and then the client looks at the smart contract yes you could but I mean there as far as I understand it and others can learn better probably there might be issues with like clients and fasting clients which don't have the right state I see that makes sense so we would have to get it into their state does anyone else have a kind of a comment on the technical feasibility of that at all you can also just go through in furor yeah but I don't think that helps with actually getting it into the state for the light clients and stuff and too many people a lot of people are using in fear and we don't want this to be more centralized than it already is I'm guessing so we will kind of want a solution that would work even if we if it and Fuhrer went down granted it's not going to probably but another option is is essentially like using IP FS and then have IP NS point to the latest you know the latest content hash that could continue the block what might be so we just don't think the IP and that's me behind the scenes I don't think the client can read an IP and s hash if we connected that to a smart contract I mean maybe but I don't think the client would be able to read IP and s natively yeah that's a whole nother deal I think go ahead way yes so I just want to provide some some ideas but I think if we want to do manners similarly it would always meet like at least some changes for the for other clans so it it probably requires like at least a month or something development time so the first idea is I mean those two should workers like crime so the first idea is just to take to put the signaling into the actual death data of haider so that means this would work for all the light clans that at least downloads all the his about headers so let's just allow me to do that another probably more reliable way is to hard-code a version number into the header but that requires changing the format of the header but in that way you a flight plan doesn't download all the flow headers this will still work for them but just 20 years but those will always require some like at least some a IPS and development work for this before we can gather some final tests and oh man that i mean these are really interesting ideas but it just strikes me that like they're designed to fix a problem which i don't know how big is that problem that we need to like push back you know a fork on a test net and can't we just isn't it just simpler just cut a new release I'm just worried about introducing a bunch of new idea key stuff yeah sitting here with the latest my feeling is exactly the same with all these solutions they're complicated and they look new vectors of attack they open up new potential issues that we will not have time to analyze in time like personally I think that our resources might be better spent I don't know what tests writing tests like doing things we already know we're just a thought yeah good perspective let's see so maybe this isn't the time to solve that problem then so what do people have other thoughts on this and it's eg one thing I would suggest is maybe a minimum interval between the client release and the fork fork date right so if if we know that this client is going to be forking tomorrow we need to change that fork number B for cutting this release if that's how long develop me to and which clients though could I bring up my own client and then use it to delay any Forks that I haven't bothered support yes tree tree well but if you're bringing up your own client it's not that used would that even matter you would just you know do your own fork or are you talking about the main ones yeah so that's my question is how do we identify the ones that we're willing to respect before for yeah that's a good point because at this point there's at least what eight clients or something something like that if if you count like some of the research clients and stuff like that well maybe the metric maybe the metric we use is just clients for presenting some minimum percent of all the clients and the observes the observed clients the network or something yeah which day was today would mean in practice Kevin parity but in the future yeah before we've kind of done if it if it a if it has ten percent of the network or more which at points harmony has we've kind of set death parity harmony in the past so you're right hmm that's another interesting idea and I think we'll have more court have meetings to discuss this more in depth definitely but what we've done is identified the problems talked about a few solutions some of the main ones being getting the fork monitor back up getting kind of more of a little bit of a project manager role for one or more people and having some ideas of a minimal time between the releases the client you know binary releases and the actual forked predicted time since we released very soon before both both major clients did let's see what have I not covered anybody who's kind of been following I had asked a question about whether we wanted some sort of a I mean I used the phrase war room which may not be the right phrase but I mean we have the awkward data channel it seems to be working quite well but at the very least some sort of quasi official source of truth about things like black members about which work is canonical I think a fork monitor would help also you set up a hack and be done on those fed if they're in other work which was really helpful and in fact if that's the answer that's fine maybe that just becomes what we do in the future but I was struggling a bit to find link canonical source of truth during this fork it would have found something quasi-official useful and obviously it could be the role of the product manager or project manager whatever to like manage that yeah I think utilizing the tools we already have would be good like that hack in the document having like a shared document that people crowdsource the information for what's canonical and not because it's real hard to find that information and a-rollin chatroom especially one that was as active as the core dev chat was during the event so yeah that's another good idea and so we've kind of yeah we've gone over some stuff Lane was this kind of sufficient from what you said earlier which was before talking about when the next fork should be we should kind of reflect on what's already happened it wasn't so much about reflection it was more about what needs to happen between now and I mean that release that's right I think I think Martin spoke to that like there are certain things need to be done and actually like all the big ones pretty much have been done it's more repeating rinse and repeat and you know to make sure we're super confident that there are no remaining issues so yeah I think the answer is yes sorry I was a bit where are you talking about when to we should push it forward or we're talking about oh we were just talking about if there's anything else we need to go over as far as both reflection on what happened or what we need to do for the future which we've identified certain things like fixing the fork monitor and having releases be a little further out and things like that so is there anything else we need to kind of talk about before we talk about when the next fork will be okay yes sorry I just can't find my mute button did we talk about testing it what's the status Constantino purchased yeah Martin touched on that a little bit he said that we still need to write more manual tests I guess I think is what they're called but the fuzz testing is running 24 hours a day and it does about a test a second so we are onine test a second that's cool Dinah's anything Martin no but I'm sorry I don't really I can't really speak for where Demetri is that the manual tests and what what are remaining I don't know okay let's go ahead then and talk about what we will do between now and the fork regardless of when it is I think I've already repeated it a few times so I don't want to repeat it forever but coordinate with minors make releases longer in between fix the fork monitor and define a better I guess communication and war room layer of this whole deal if we need to I think the coordinates channel works for now for our size and for who's involved as long as we have like a Hackham D file or something that can be a source of truth for what's going on and if we have someone who's kind of wrangling things and for previous major incidents it's usually me or offer free or both kind of handling a lot of the calms at least externally to like exchanges and miners and another groups major groups like in fira and my crypto and stuff so we can probably just continue with that role I'm thinking unless offer you want to throw in the towel now but yeah I think we can just continue doing that for the moment and having other people help in volunteer so that's the other thing that there's gonna happen between now and the now in the fork to have a little bit more of a defined roles than that in that sense but is there a master somewhere like like everything you just said is super helpful is exchanges for miners there's in fear oh there's my creds oh yeah I mean no this is an institutional knowledge and yura now freeze heads I'm just wondering if this is like if there's a master list like which exchanges for example which miners it's on my head and we have some Skype channels we could write it down but it's basically writing down some Skype channels I don't know what exchanges or miners or in these channels which actually is good so that I'm not just one-on-one talking with a million people but whenever major incidents happen we have a way to reach out to these people which i think is good without it being too coordinated or centralized so does that answer your question lane yes I'm just thinking you know future and scalability I just want to I want to make sure you guys don't have too much on your plates I want to you know does that task list need to be sharted or you know yeah that's the question I mean generally yes it answers my question thank you yeah I have something like a red phone I think they call it a red phone like situation where you call the red phone and it like reaches out to the most important parties or something like that that might that might be a good thing to have I mean you can have like a maybe we can take this conversation offline but I do think there's best practices here from the world of project management you know you can have like a chain that I don't like the word command but basically a chain of communication let's call it and you can feel bacon redundancy so that one person doesn't need to be the central figure there's just a bot yep yep okay anyone else have any other comments kind of regarding what we've talked about otherwise we'll go on to when the fork is gonna happen yeah maybe my comment is in between those two questions so we used to have subscribe just to like have two weeks notice color parks on the testbed before proceeding was anything I would like to focus on that that we have like a certain stability that we can rely on and this is the one thing I want to propose before talking about when we are going to fork and the other things that I'm not feeling confident talking about a heartful date before we have tests ready so that's my comments and whether or not the tests are ready is kind of it's more of an opinion question because there's never a done with testing I guess so do you have like a metric that well as far as I guess he's talking about the manual test and yes in like human readable form natural language which Dimitri's going to so that yeah those will be done at some point I see I wish to meet you was here to give me a time line does anyone have a sense for how far along demetria's on those so as far as I know all the shift stuff is done all the he's working on s stores increasing the coverage of those what else do we have the Xcode hash there are Xcode ash tests I don't know if they are complete but I don't know either how extensive that is it's basically only a couple of different work quirky behaviors that need to be tested and what else is there yeah so the block reward and the difficulty difficulty tests are finished okay well yeah the bottom line is testing isn't done and we're going forward with stuff so that doesn't sound safe just jump in a second what he said I don't feel comfortable discussing a hard court date until the tests are done to me that's just like a basic starting point just just my two cents yeah that's a good idea and just to be clear when I say when will the fork happen I don't mean like let's pick an exact date today I mean we need to pick we need to do we do need to decide if it's going to be and late-november versus next year only because that'll help people you know have certain expectations and not be too stressed during Devcon and stuff like that because I highly doubt that things are going to or the tests are gonna be entirely complete by the time Devcon sover but i could be completely wrong yeah oh yeah no we already have that that no earlier then is the end of November agree to push that back a bit to just you know remove some stress that's all okay yeah and that's kind of what I was gonna ask everybody how does everyone what does everyone think of pushing this - mmm I guess that would be January or February which at which point the block number becomes an issue I don't know how big of an issue though or the author block number the what's it called when things slow down nice agent stuff so I I'm going to go out on a limb here and just say that if we do decide that Constantinople isn't until November or sorry January February then I will probably try to push for including Cracow in the Constantinople interesting if everything works out with implementations okay hmm what does everyone say to that so I'm just dropping this now so people can think about it and yeah yeah that makes sense to some degree if we delay Constantinople further we just have to keep in mind that adding new features to Constantinople also increase the burden of testing and it might it even though we delay it now it might even delay it more for yet more and prop powers probably quite involved for what I understand yeah I just don't know the implementation status for the clients can we get a quick temperature on that from everybody we'll start with off redo you know if like Prague house started to be implemented and rust yeah we have an open point request from what I understand us there the specification is not ready yet so there are like open questions on how to implement it because it's not entirely suspect for a serial well actually that's not quite true so me and Powell and Andre and unrepentant party have been hashing it out fit and with it the authors so they are updating these specifications and meanwhile the three implementations in CBP go and rust are in agreement with each other and the remaining parts for rust as far as I understand it is not actually the algorithm but the changes to actually integrate it into eat hash which should be the smaller of the two tasks I mean implementing preparing is the bigger one and actually integrating it into okay so this brings up an interesting possibility I don't think we'll be able to decide this particular point today but I am enjoying the idea of throwing something in the mix here I put it up there of course yeah just um just going back to the working backwards point and your point about the quality bomb Hudson I do think that's I mean obviously our hard deadlines no pun intended I'll do some math on that after this I don't want to do it during the call but I do think we need a particular point in time at which there must be a feature freeze and there must be like tests must be done so that we don't bump into that there's just a thought so like I don't know exactly when that is we still have some leeway obviously we discussed this on previous coordinate calls I know we still have some months of yeah and if we have leeway all the way to like March or something then I think Prague has the possibility even February or January if we can get Prague pad done the only problem is the holidays everyone kind of slows down so that's that's my concern that we want to we want to keep in mind so yeah now that we're off of that subject I guess week hmm so are we we're not are we ruling out that we're that we won't be doing this in November or do we think we want to say there's a possibility I'm open to either either one anybody else have opinions Hey I think sorry that's a kind of box yeah just a short thought there is like a leeway isn't that for extraordinary situations you know unexpected items that come up during testing or or or development rather than using it for planned for adding features yeah my thought is again I don't know the numbers off the top of my head but hypothetically let's say that we do the math and we figure out that a lot of times will double in like June that keep like we need maybe three months of leeway before that just for testing and you know maybe the next test that hard for fails again or something so that's our suggesting like eat your fries and it test freeze you know with a big chunk of leeway before that I guess the question is how much leeway rights for one feature I don't know if we need three months all right I'm not convinced we need three months for one feature depending on the feature okay so I don't know is there a way we can walk away from this meeting knowing if the November's out of the question I mean it I can I can ask the counterfactual which is what would have to happen for the main effort for to happen November maybe that's a better that is a better way to address this thank you so a completely original idea what would have to happen for this hard fork to go ahead November I guess not well that Dimitri says the tests are complete and all client whether it says yes we pass the test and no issues are found but could you also try the Greg colbrunn approach and ask is there anyone here who says over my dead body do we do it enough number I like the Greg : approach a lot of the time oh you're gonna say something Powell yeah I would like to propose that we have like one month of completely freeze so to deploy new clients so yes so I think many people said two weeks but I would go with one month or so at the point we have releases ready yeah the hard work will happen after one month from from this point when we are confident I'm happy we can release clients with the needed information and and also I support this this additional point when we also confident we have all the manual tests finished Pablo just to be super clear you're talking about a main that release you're not a test net release right yeah I totally agree is so four weeks is a minimum time we need between release and and hard and if we want the in November then we need to prepare these releases within two weeks this means tests manual tests needs to be ready within two weeks clients need to be as test needs to be integrated into clients the clients need to create releases and publishers and since we totally collide with Def Con so I'm not the one saying over my dead body but I would probably die in this process so yeah I think after you may have made this point on Twitter off kordell's or something it's possible but that would mean like the parody came in the game and the other client teams like basically skipping Def Con so maybe that is over my dead body Pantheon and I can always say for us that it would be pretty tight but we're looking pretty good as far as these features but we're leading up to our release it calm and we're expecting you know a whole bunch of activity right after that that's still free minor and big grand scheme of things but that going into the end of November is pretty tight what you say in Martin yeah the metric just joined hey Demetri okay the one we own hey Demetri we have some questions so we were wondering about the status of the test and how close we are to being completed for the manual test for the past few weeks I've added this in Us store tests especially after you discover this back after I'm launching on Roxton oh I mean I've been thinking of working on Xcode here but I change it and I first I'm demanding tasks or tests so X cold fresh tests are not implemented and a few more s store tests I want to German to merge and in transition tests in evolution does new remain and the first test from other team who work on this so the translating corpus file into state tests and how long do you think it'll take for that to get done if you think about only the manual manual to stuff exactly my act was hoping to finish it before the DEF CON so because on the DEF CON I'll be busy next Monday I traveled to Prague and I will have one week with a swarm team and I think I'll have a lot of time to focus on tests so next week I plan to finish it hmm okay that's actually a lot sooner than we thought I think it's just that once the DEF CON starts it's like everything will be frozen all bbz yeah that makes sense okay so offeree does that change things or is it still gonna be pretty tight client team wise to get a release out mm I don't think that you want to hurry with the release the throb stone if you we need to dress that well stress the network a bit more to figure out whether we could trigger some more issues like that okay yes I keep getting the feeling that we are trying to rush this and I would second that we should let's just breathe and see what happens you know yeah that sounds like a good idea to me anybody else have comments on that particular topic oh I agree I think was good the bass rushed it and put it in a test not because that made us find an issue but yeah yeah I would actually would like to see well I would like to see that we do the hard work on a test net and then run it for like half of a year could we do it like this you said after half a year run a test that and yeah well maybe not this hard part but next book Oh in the future I mean nothing's ever out of possibility that would give us a lot more time to test all of this changes that we have and we could apply a PE proposals on a test net one by one rather than one single hard work I see yeah that sounds good so that could be for the hard fork after this one maybe unless we Istanbul unless we do a weird like Prague pal one in the middle which there's starting to be a lot more push for to have Prague pal happen as soon as possible after this hard fork or during this hard fork so but probably I've heard more people say after this hard fork within a few months having Prague probably the only change and then that going into a hard fork but I don't know how feasible that is so that'll be a whole nother topic for a discussion so I think we've sort of historically shied away from like trying to reduce the number of hard forks and that's understandable because there's a lot of work testing coordination and cetera that goes into them but if we get good at this and we streamline this process a bit along the lines we're discussing then maybe it's not such a big deal if there's like tui or instead of one years just just a thought yeah I individual individual hard floor could become like a smaller or loose tire so to speak yeah let maybe even less features if we have multiple - which change the name from crowd work to update that's a good idea make it less frantic and political so it sounds like a lot of so the the mood I'm kind of getting from this and the the feeling is that we don't want to do this at the end of November and that at the earliest we would have a hard fork in the end of January or in January is that am i kind of feeling that the right way everybody agree yes oh yeah I think that's a good idea I think it puts a lot of a lot less stress on the client teams especially so that they can focus on defcon which we just released some or we're actually having a Def Con AMA today at 4:00 Eastern so come with your questions anybody in this call or listening in okay I think that we've decided then that the earliest we'd have it is January we're gonna have an all core dev call a couple of weeks after like actually maybe a week after DEFCON I forgot it the exact timing but uh actually I can pull it up right now we're having a meeting number nine November 9th yep I can hear you it is November 9th you're right so which one oh okay so that actually will be that won't be too bad so we'll be able to talk about this very quickly after DEFCON but um let's call off anything happening in November and just say the earliest will be January and then we'll discuss it more on November 9th anybody opposed oh cool sounds good we came to a consensus yay no not this time this consensus by everybody so yeah DEFCON is gonna be exciting hope to see you all there and does anyone have anything else hey this is uh this is Johnny ray with consensus um I was just gonna tell you that um that we we actually hired a full-time dev to start working on its theorem plant his name is Eno Merkel and Mirko he's he's pretty talented and we have him working on it full time so you should have some updates awesome thanks for joining the call and feel free to join on the 9th to kind of give your update on that nickel his surname is Merkel did you say Mirko yeah I said not Merkel no no all right all right thanks everybody we will talk to you on November 9th thanks everybody do a broad my goodbyes [Music] [Music] 