[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] you you sweet okay I think I'm fixing things now let me just make sure we still don't have any real-time feedback mechanism on life here so if anyone's on life here and listening and has any audio or video issues find us on the Gator awkward Debs channel I guess yeah YouTube just got mad at me cuz the audio was broken but we're here now so let's get on to the agenda so the me trees not here for testing I don't think there's any testing updates anyway so general test framework using the RPC methods and once still is kind of pushing for a handful of new methods he gave an update a talk today at the meetup here that will be posted online at some point but it'll probably pop in next time we came more detailed update he's really pushing for some more clients so look at an issue on github that outlines the further required RPC methods that he wants and he's asking for interested clients to develop some of them and to start to further standardize this process so hopeful detestable that's to meet you sucks cool thanks so much let's go to research updates and then client updates so for research I think we got a bunch of different people with metallics so y'all go ahead well this should be ahead or should we just assume that people will watch the live stream in 40 minutes yeah actually that's actually a good better idea so for the live stream happening in 40 minutes where's that going to be held status well it's head at the step how about the status meeting I'm not sure okay in the so if you're watching this YouTube video in the future I'm gonna put in the description where you can watch the update for the live stream video because yeah y'all are gonna talk about the latest on the Casper sharding shared spec right yep you turn Bethan are we going to live singleness well yeah it'll actually be a crypto to live stream that TV but that seems like a collision streamer like right here but that seems like a cool thing with the current talk that we're streaming what we'll do is yet we'll cut it off as soon as you guys are done alright yeah yeah they only have a single stream so I think that's the way it's gonna have to work I guess just give me the word and I'll cut mine off and you can kick yours off but the good thing is anyone watching this on life here can just stay tuned into the same channel yep up live peers working I'm getting word so we're good on that alright we'll run through client updates I guess Peter so update wise I don't think we have anything too spectacular for now one interesting thing is that for the last few weeks we've been playing around with pruning me and it stopped buggy and it's slow but it seems to shape up really nicely I'm really hoping that the next major gas release will actually have full state pruning yay excellent job that's way too Dutch harmony I actually managed to sync up on to block four point five million before hitting a bad luck that's something yes is that before or after the Shanghai attack blocks after after seven okay cool so nothing interesting about harmony just a regular work and a hotfix for one vm bug Dimitri from harmony can't turn on his mic right now so thanks for the update Dimitri does anyone here represent a client and want to give an update or represent a research thingy okay what was that does anyone here here like represent a club my mic cut off just a second yeah he wasn't update would be really good he wasn't update as we are preparing together talk tomorrow which also might be live-streamed or at least will be recorded for sure so yeah that's where we'll give our update sounds good I'll have a bully so yeah it'll be a live peer link sounds good and then they'll post the video later let's see anybody else have updates for their projects clients meetings etc I mean Constantinople related as I as I mentioned in the channel i published a guy no prudhoe eid for the gas cost reduction the only thing that i know that i think we need before that could be kinda four boys that finalized more is more like being like more rigorous thinking and discussion about like if there's a gas plants that should be reduced what they should be reduced to and i'd like to get it like to see it but for both yes and parity at the least on that because what reducing the reducing that cost does kind of depend on both guests and PRD having a faster implementations that can handle it okay is that a discussion that should be on the f magicians forum on f3 search or just in the calls probably stand the VIP issue is also yeah okay so if you could post that link again and the core devs getter later what are you might have already our money hey what's up um so are you you're there in berlin right yeah did you have any update basically we had prepared a road map for our Chardon research and already published it so I will send a link later and yeah that's the main the most major update or for now okay sounds good and then finally for the e ip's Nick did you are you doing 1087 for net gas metering I haven't made any changes to okay I don't think anyone any changes needed to be made right there wasn't really much else to put on there I didn't think so I would like to have a great discussion about the so the remainder gas Costas reason currently subsequent rights to storage the same as a storage lead but I can't okay sounds good so where would you like that conversation to happen primarily just on the EIP itself sure all supposed to be magicians make a new sari I didn't quite catch to what what it is could you state that again which it is sorry I know it's the currently the the sort of residual cost I give you item value and the motion vectors which are you each writing to cost you as much as extraordinary but I do believe it could be lower okay that sounds good if people aren't commenting on it just post in the core devs chat and that goes for Vitalik and Yuri IPS and everyone else is from Constantinople because starting next meeting I want to start getting to a point where we can like set some goals for implementation dates and things like that mm-hmm it says great I think does anyone else have anything they want to talk about with their a IPS for cons Anton Opel okay links is currently found on github repo so status that I am / Olympus nice bring me there we're gonna publish a little bit more about that I will select a more public place finish yeah other than that just working on me on bits and pieces get running our first box using your client cool congratulations on the first beta release of status on main it oh yeah that's very cool yeah Greece cool and shout-out to live Pierre for helping us host this every other week and for hosting the upcoming ECDC talks that are happening today it sounds like otherwise was there anything else from anybody I don't know if we want to talk about this on this call or not Alexi who I believe is not on the call had mentioned this idea of changing I think it was a camera if there was network or chain idea I think network ID starting with Constantinople Oh interesting let's bring that up for next meeting when there's more people here to give an opinion I'd say sure okay you know I have a question for batalik because on the agenda there's the eep account abstraction and also the skinny create - I'm curious if both I mean both we need a concepts traction for Constantinople but skinny create - is definitely intended to go forward yeah what's a bit curious why that one popped up all of a sudden oh I just copy and pasted the list I forgot to take it out right yeah my bad and see anything else well cool I'm excited about the ECDC stuff happening and the fact that it's being recorded so everybody check that out and we'll see you all in two weeks thanks everybody thank you like this more often I like my Mayo [Music] [Music] [Music] 