[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] alright welcome to the call everybody we're gonna go ahead and get started on the core devs meeting number 48 this one should be a short one because no one added anything to the agenda so we're just gonna mostly go through updates and then talk a little bit more about Constantinople so to start do we have a Dimitri or Martin or anyone else who can speak to testing right now yeah I guess I can talk a bit about it so yeah the tests are not just stabilized but there has been there is still activity in generating the tests and earlier earlier today we found a consensus issue in the CPP ethereum engine which has caused some bad tests and that has been fixed so we're waiting for those to be regenerated again I think acts I can't talk I can't really say how wide the coverage is so the test Dmitri can talk about that it becomes when he I'm here yeah sorry yeah you can go out so the topic is a test right yes so yeah actually doing good I am receiving reports of failing tests from different developers in the chat and we fixing those issues like Martin said today we fixed one issue in CPP and just already regenerated and being merged into a test developed well it is actually good I hope we find all the consensus this year during this test period but still speaking about tests which are still in development it is Xcode crash test and a couple more tests around storage changes and blockchain transition tests and yeah I think that's it difficulty formula check tests are also being merged last week so you could try difficulty for a long on folder called basic tests there's difficulty Constantinople Don Jason those are Auto generated test for difficulty formula tells yeah I think that's it for now yeah I can also mention that the first testing framework has been running for a couple of weeks and it's yeah it's just done millions of tests it's found some false positives and then it actually found a consensus issue but it's one of those concerns issues which cannot be triggered on maintenance because it has to do with how non-existing pre-compile behaved I guess that's it all right thanks you too Dmitry as far as the have you been getting a little more help with any of the testing or do you still need somebody know developing the test cases in addressed in adjacent formant I didn't gotten your help Jared was writing some tests but she's only been focusing on working music whatever she was working this so I know to cover his boot requests and working on ex-con hash test alone also I'm Xing bugs in CBP client there could fix okay so this is just a call out to any of the other teams again if you have anybody who can help Demetri with some of these tests especially I'm tuning them yeah go ahead Dmitry yeah actually just today I want one of my friend to reply to my message and she says that he has somebody who might be interesting in working with the serum test so this evening I'm gonna meet him and discuss this issue wonderful cool if you need any help with that let me know but yeah I'm guessing your good so let's see that's testing will go through kyon updates and let's start with parody yeah so far the only we use is that we did a constant in open releases today so we are prepared for ops and what is a Coburn hard fork that's coming up this month I think last time I shake it was Rob Smith this weekend right yes Sunday right has anyone else been looking at that so he has that sets it from parity so if anyone wants to test too hard for to Constantinople changes on the parity client please upgrade to version 207 or two one - thank you thanks so much gift I guess is the same as parity with the release on Monday which I think on Monday maybe on Tuesday morning I don't remember which enabled all the IPS and order basically the wraps and heart Fork apart from that nothing spectacular to report Trinity nothing super excited we just been working more and more on sync performance to get our the amount of time it takes to sync the node down to a reasonable level I'm still making pretty big leaps and cutting that performance number down but still a lot left to do okay a theory MJ or harmony we have published these 30 minutes ago with enables Constantinople on Robson there is a problem with tests so yeah at the moment it here MJ doesn't pass all this because there are some test issues but I hope there won't be any consensus issues but what worry that it could be covered the truth could be fine by my dad s yeah so that's it okay thank you a less so we released version wine 1.4 and the this one was stabilizing for some time and this is most in an effort to have stable releases from time to time so this one is not fully Constantinople compatible but the de master master brand is and we have one node running C++ code on Robson and and I think we switched to parties network monitor so it should be there on the list so I think that's the only one that will be going through the Europe's turn hard work okay thank you let's see Nimbus yeah short quick update you've been working continuing on sing continuing on getting the general state tests going making steady progress there on testing in general for for the beacon genie if you're in 2.0 there's work being done on the test format there as well so if you're interested in in that just just jump into the beacon chain project on the theorem there's there are issues open about that other than that looking into platform making sure we can compile on platforms such as arm and and others painted thank you pantheon yeah the big update for us is that we have implemented all of the Constantinople in the eyepiece awesome that's great let's see is turbo death here okay aetherium je s left a comment that says can't join the call so the update is that we are making good progress and now have substantial parts of all e IPS implemented latest merging the s store implementation so I'm somewhat confident that we can do a Constantinople ready release of the VM within the next one to two weeks so that's exciting for them is mana here hey Andrew I think you're unmuted and I don't know if you're on delay or if Oh perfect okay and Andrew you from mana yes I am Oh wonderful thanks all free for letting me know if you could give us an update for your client sure yeah we are we've currently updated all the VIPs and we're just working on syncing Robson's at the moment we we started to focus on that last week we're at about block 300,000 at the moment and main that we are at 1 million seven hundred thousand some thanks for the update is nether mind here I think I need to invite them to the call I don't know if I really have yet I need to get in touch what about X theorem okay other than II was um and research have I missed any clients okay also if you go to the core devs notes there's a link for Constantinople progress and it looks like right now let me count but pretty much every client is completely compatible except for Trinity aetherium J s and X theorem so that's really exciting and I'm not sure how many of those have the updated create to e I P specs but I was seeing comments that most of them do at least all the major clients do so that's that's all good next we're gonna talk to e wasum hey Hudson mrs. Lane I can be was and unless there's anyone else just adjusting the sound cool yeah so I mean the main thing that we've been working on the past few days is actually benchmarking which is obviously a very important part of this project right we want to understand what sort of performance improvements we're seeing both using the wasum engines like binary inand wabbit which are interpreters as well as a JIT engine called watham just understanding what sort of performance improvements we're gonna see with with us and relative to EVM I haven't personally been working on that myself so I'm not going to speak to the results of that but I'm sure you'll hear more from us on that soon we've been continuing to work on tests and stuff that's going pretty well we've got a stable test net running and we're still planning on that being public as of Devcon so it's kind of documentation around that as well hallo I think you're here did you want to add anything Pavel on the eve EMC work you've been doing yeah I mean so I'm I'm close to release a VNC version six and I have to update go go bindings for that but this some small decision you have to made but besides that it should be stable for some time so yeah mostly that is planned version that I think we we don't want to modify anymore for for next month's ok great is that it line yes Thank You Hudson alright thank you all for me was on the next is gonna be research with I think just think Danny's the only one in here from research yeah I think the most interesting thing going on is Justin continuing for with this PDF feasibility study and an effort to create strong one by one by school randomness file coin is has agreed to split the cost of the next next chunk of this feasibility study which involves actually designing some circuits and stuff because they are interested in the same reason hopefully in the next couple months will have like a really clear idea as to whether this is a feasible path forward for other random beacon to know that ran Dow actually serves our purposes in most cases and likely will be moved forward with initial iterations and that the VBF can be layered on as a hardening technique in the future if we choose then cleaning up and also adding a lot of features and components the eqo spec there's a lot of development going on in that right now I wanted to just again make sure I know that there's kind of two parallel efforts going on right now but the people in this call and the people on your teams have a lot of incredibly valuable insights and experience to add to this process so please if you want to be more involved there are a number of like you used to aspect Cerises like needs two aspects rico ETOP Emmys 2o tests where these things are beginning to form please take a look and please if you want to if you want to get the lay of the land please don't hesitate to reach out to me to set up a call to talk about what's going on and maybe figure out where you can get involved that's that I know there's a ton going on over here in terms of getting ready for those Forks so maybe maybe after comms be a good time to pop them or drink that's it for us thank you thanks Danny and I think that's it for updates what'd I miss any clients did I miss any researchers or anybody pop in at the very end okay the next thing is the Constantinople and Robson hard fork so we'll start with rob stone that's gonna happen I'm thinking around Sunday or Monday from the last time someone ran that estimation so does anyone have like a new estimation by chance if not we'll just kind of say it's around Sunday or Monday yeah so we're thinking it's around then and I think we're ready for that we'll just have some people online as it gets closer hopefully and if anything bad happens we'll all get together right we usually don't have a call for something like a test net but that might be a good thing to have let's see we'll also give an update on Prague was just suggested by Martin so we'll do that after we talked about Constantinople - so with Constantinople we are still doing tests on that it's definitely not going to happen before Devcon as we've said the last few meetings it'll happen after DEFCON we're not exactly sure in about two weeks the first groups of people are gonna be arriving in Prague for Devcon so I think we should skip I think we should skip the next meeting and just have a meeting about a month from now or for I guess four Fridays from now so just skipping one does anyone think that's a bad idea cool all right we'll do that then and we'll have more on Constantinople at that time until and by that time I think pretty much all the clients will be mostly implemented it sounds like from everyone giving their estimations alright anybody else have comments on that yeah so do we preliminary do we have an idea we've said after Constantinople sorry after dokkan and right now everything seems implemented in our clients and we're going with test nuts in a couple of days so if we find no consensus errors in the testing room if I no consensus on the test net what would what should be aim for with focus on Tonopah that's my question that's a good question anybody have any thoughts on that I'll pull the calendar well my recommendation would be that since December is kind of questionable month so we don't know who is working what is working holidays and whatnot I would say that we either if everything looks good on Robson we either push it maybe mid November but if we if we don't push it in November and I don't think it's realistic to push it in this I would vote for mid-november or end of November I would second set I think mid know the mouse might be a bit rushed since we I guess we have our next deaf coil mid-november so I don't really see this happening but if we want to do is just this year and maybe knit or maybe a November I would second towards the end of November but that isn't based on client stuff just not doing it immediately after DEFCON yeah that sounds good end of November and how many weeks do we need in advance of putting that block number in would we how many do we usually do I don't know what historically we've done but I feel like a month of like time between the the time that we set the block number and the time when it actually happens is a good amount of time to give people plenty of time to do updates yeah makes sense months okay in that case the next core dev call if we skip Def Con is going to be on the 9th I think am i right wait what's today the 12th so if we skip the 26th then the next court have calls on the 9th we can decide the block number hmm we can decide it as early as you know the 25th 26th we can decide it as late as just the next core dev meeting pick a number and just decide on that next chord to have meeting what the number is and if we're doing it this year if we run into problems we would push it off until January obviously to avoid the holidays in December so yeah if we it's not a it's not a block number but in terms of dates I I would target something like November 27th 28th or 29th which I think targeting later means it'll happen I wanted to slightly earlier days depending on how far out we we target because of well how block times are not perfect so if we if we do you think it's too late to make this plan on the 9th or should we make it like literally immediately after Devcon like in chat I mean I think we can get a block number announced for those dates and if on the all core devs call on the 9th people are not confident about that then we'll be scrapping it for 2018 and pushing it to January 2019 so like we can somebody can do the numbers and and estimate a block number for one of those dates we can announce it outside of this call unless anybody has any objections to that and then we can confirm on the 9th what about having a quick Constantinople call in like 7 days just evaluating the fork on Robson if that's possible and really keeping it short and saying this looks like it's running good and announced like a preliminary I don't know block number and if something goes wrong during DEFCON or the subsequent reads weeks we can just pull this number and say let's do January or you think ok and I won't have I mean do we want to repeat the P Asko oblast fork where we put a number in the compiled clients release it and have to do patch releases and roebucks or not do that and risk having splits done away or should we have some kind of a signaling mechanism and if so how um how about dance avoid pushing those updates until after the all core devs meeting on the nights that whatever pull requests that is can consid hanging until until that means yeah so the problem is if we push it on the 9th and it goes into the release on the 12th and then there's a consensus issue on the 18th there's still 11 days left to the fork and then we have to decide okay yeah postpone or not fallen or whatever yeah I guess this is the discussion we had at last a song where we were talking whether to implement bail out mechanism for hard Forks how about we sign this and discuss this like some potential solutions to this and we can see if we can set on something by the meeting next Friday yeah that'd be a good idea but I think that just to put put some items on the table before we discuss it the main one I remember that was sounded like the most feasible is having a smart contract that pings basically the clients can ping and see if the pork is still on I guess is that kind of the main idea very much yeah i just got an interesting idea for the test if we clone an existing main network and i ran a test cluster from a certain block right like from right now every client is reaching the current win that transactions as if it was already won constantinople fork that would be like another test network but like a clone of current win network what running on constantinople so we could really repeat all the transactions as if it was already running on Constantinople is that something we have the capability to do today or have done before or is that just an idea just an idea I've been thinking right now at the moment and it came up to me so I mean it could probably be done but the only thing we'd really get coverage of is the nut test or gas changes because no one would be using the shifting stuff and no one would be using create - yeah you're right and block delay doesn't bomb delay won't be noticeable for a while yes okay so let's talk about signalling methods in the next week and yeah let's have let's have a meeting on the 19th why don't we and yeah that sounds good to me so I think that's anything else about Constantinople we want to talk about just just one through say that I mean anyone who's interested can use the parity Robson dashboard it's Rob's new dash stats dot territory dot IO and the WebSockets secret is the same as e stats dotnet cool thank you all right so what's next Oh prog pal so yeah anybody have an update on prog tau I know that they made some promises last time for some articles and for somes a little bit more tightening up of the spec and I don't haven't seen that but I don't know if anyone's been in communication with their team or not yeah so we have actually been in contact with our team me and Pavel and also Andre from parity and we have ironed out some kinks in the implementation so right now CPP well the e f-- minor stuff that power last encoding seems to match with the go implementation now there are some problems with the EEP I don't know Paul do you want to go into more details about that that problems with a protocol and stuff yes so in terms of EEP itself there are some big gaps in the spec so it's I think it's practically impossible to implement this algorithm based on the EIP itself mmm so I had to reach out for many source code that was mostly done by the team and by the protocol team and still the final version was found somewhere in like one of the implementations and we discussed the differences so yes as as Martin said we we are on the same page in terms of going c++ c implementation but definitely EAP is in bad shape and and there are some details and some very small improvements we can make but I think the most important part is some kind of we some kind of have to reference implementations but there is no proper spec for it so this is situation I am not really I don't really like because it will make make the direction of where it goes but I mean I don't want to people to to to read see or go code to figure out how to implement that but anyway so the promise they did about improving EAP and answer questions mostly in didn't happen in public but as much inside we have some contact with the people so we couple of ask questions directly and you really get some answers so that helped me to finish the implementation that address produce the same results for the basic crisis and it was it was finished yesterday so the SkyTrain recent news yeah so and there are some changes and it's been made because the original idea about the invitation is that it has an internal epoch of 50 blocks when it was translated into aetherium it uses the same epoch as it - that is 30,000 blocks so there which leads to some problems which needs an update of the protocols between the miners the get work function aside from that I think the general idea is to basically launch some kind of tested for it as soon as as soon as possible cool that's interesting to hear so that's good that they're working together so that sounds like the agenda we want to pushes for the EIP to be updated to a very very detailed specification which sounds like a good idea to me is that something that we've communicated to them and that is in the in the works yes we did so I think as of today they still plan to update the IP with what we discussed privately and like fill up the gaps that order ok great thank you all for the update um was there anything else anyone wanted to discuss it sounds like we're going to be skipping the next chord F column we're having a Constantinople call in a week in order to not mess with anyone elses dev calls we're not going to be like shifting any other meetings in response to having the Constantinople meeting next week so Danny you can do a sigh of relief there we're we're on Thursdays oh that's right worrying about our thing okay no worry cool we won't shift anyway just because that's confusing at least for right now so yeah I'll make the agenda for the meeting in a week and I guess I'll see you all there is there anything else yay for short meetings everybody have a good day or evening goodbye [Music] [Music] 