[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] blow okay now we got it going good morning everybody or wherever it is in your part of the world let's go through the agenda if you refresh it I think I updated it pretty recently the first one is testing it buzzer updates so we'll start with IDO talking about the buzzer updates if you want to go ahead oh you know I think you're on the if you're talking hey Ito candy gross check-check okay can everybody hear me hey can everybody hear me hello hey can everybody hear me yes wonderful yeah alright then we'll start on the first agenda item let's go with buzzer updates with Guiteau and ito if you just want to go ahead and just explain improvements or any news or things you want to talk about currently on NPM possibly Poe story is currently but we want to make it public anecdotes of things I think and I think people but that is one thing the other thing is it was actually a private point of mine but on book and documentation who and I have Martha live on it Peggy doe could you get closer to the microphone it's a little bit hard to hear fine can everyone else hear him it might be on my side yes very quiet oh I don't know what the problem is oh there we go we can hear you now okay so I've been also working on a big non-fossil that's the big num implementations of go and host and C++ and so on so it's very important that these are all aligned that aren't any any differences and computations so I've been working on that and next up as we've been talking about smart contracts fussing but on any clear plans yet about that and I've been talking with marketing about fastening network stack of gas because if there wouldn't be any portman and that's what stack here that could lead to denial of service that would be a problem so you want to do that next awesome the work that you all have already been doing is really really cool and I know we have some more people such as Anton coming on to help a little bit with that repo so I think it's real promising yeah thanks cool so if there's not anything else on that let's go to the new transaction test folder structure so on the agenda there's a link to that if you guys want to kind of see while Dimitri's talking what he's talking about so Dimitri and go ahead hi so I was thinking to implement the final test that we still don't have in a general form is a transaction test so as we planning to create change changes to the transaction protocol and we have many Forks so I think we need that general transaction test a one source while describing the test and this source file produced a general transaction test which contains the result on every fork so you could just take the LPO such transaction and there is a accepted or ejected and that would be a new transaction test so I changed the folder structure to be more representative sorry I selected new categories like tests for each individual field so I think it will be easier to find like data tests while your tests and other fields also I think if in the future we and decide to change amount of fields or transaction folder it will be easier using in general transaction test as you just read there are LP so that's what I was working on and I think it will be life the end by the end of this week okay great we can add an agenda topic for the meeting after this to kind of check in on it but it looks good so far great thanks for the update agenda item number two so yuuichi had a an idea to add CC I think it's CC zero notices 2e ip's that's where you say copyright and related rights or waived vyas Creative Commons 0 so I think that's a good idea is anyone in the room familiar with that enough to know if we can put that on previous VIPs automatically or is that something that we need to request from the author of the EIP for EG IP we want to add that to I believe from the reporters okay so yeah that makes sense for future AI peas I think we should have that either as a requirement or as a something that we highly suggest so that might be pretty good any other comments on that yuuichi so yes for the incoming once I would be cool I did copyright wave otherwise I do not much and then food there are some eats that are already a must without these copyright waivers I will try to get them the first one is it number one courses and you know Egypt should contain note number whatever this one doesn't contain in this copyright waiver for now I had some education about this and then proceed from there sounds good week after this a bit you can already it lead to this eat number one through contain an instruction about this copyright thing yeah if you can do a pull request on that that'd be awesome and I'm already good on adding that to EIP one and I'm sure Casey and Martin BZ who are the other authors on that eat would be fine with it as well but what will ask them any way to get explicit permission I opened up requests about theta and on the pre request you can say some spine and then that will count as a written permission to me okay sounds good I'll be sure to do that and is there anything else with that agenda topic anybody else have opinions on adding that is there someone and if you can think of it later we can add it as in the item next week but does anyone have any qualms with Creative Commons zero okay great so the next item is a new project that Paulo wants to discuss called json-rpc proxy Ã«the agent there's a link for the discussion and for the proof-of-concept alpha release Sao Paulo you can go ahead okay um Pavel we can't hear you are you muted we heard a little bit of static oh no okay if your mics broken we'll skip that one and wait till it gets fixed again and then go back to it we're hearing bits of static so all right we'll skip that one for now so the next item Ben Edgington who works on or works on I think the Pegasus team the low-level protocol development team at consensus the blockchain studio commented a couple days ago and said is it a reasonable place to discuss and add to the agenda of this concern about the github yellow paper so if you click on the like link on 4 it gives the full picture but I'll just read through this real quick and then we'll we'll go over it step by step pardon me so the main question is does it remain the case that the yellow paper is intended to be a theorems formal specification if yes then it should be noted that the yellow paper is currently significantly out of date so what's the plan to bring it up to date post Byzantium what's the process for ownership and maintaining that going forward should it be made part of the EIP finalization process and in order to facilitate the finalization process should ii IPS be required to be included in a pull request for the yellow paper if relevant before they are accepted and consensus failures are discovered like during fuzz testing how do we make sure that the yellow paper is updated where necessary and then if the if it's not the case that the yellow paper does not continue to be a theorems formal specification what replaces it and is it worth maintaining as a resource that is descriptive rather than prescriptive if so the above questions will still stand so this is a bigger one but I think this is important it has a lot of good questions in it so let's go through and just kind of generally talk about our feelings on the yellow paper because I don't think we can answer everything in either one or subsection 1 or subsection 2 without first kind of going over what the current state is and what we feel about that so I can kind of give a little bit of information on the current state and then you know eg can also provide some context because he has been working a lot on the yellow paper via pull request so right now the yellow paper is out of date it's if I understand correctly I don't even think that it's homestead compatible completely there are a few mistakes there the process and ownership for maintaining the yellow paper currently is Gavin wood accepting pull requests and before we go into whether it should be part of the EIP finalization process there is what some people consider to be an issue that the yellow paper does not currently have a copyright and because of that depending on jurisdiction that leaves open the possibility that the author of the yellow paper which is Gavin wood could potentially use the fact that there's not a copyright notice against people wanting to make changes or copy the yellow paper and put it on their website so and when I say make changes what I mean is make changes and then paste them to for instance another repository or to a web site that hosts someone else's version of the yellow paper that's a copy so that that kind of brings up the question of where to go from there but if the yellow paper does get sorted out as far as copyright and other issues some people might have I think it's a good idea for it to be part of the EIP acceptance process were relevant personally and also updated if those testing finds problems so just to summarize what I just said the yellow paper is out of date the ownership and maintaining process currently is that Gavin wood maintains the yellow paper and accepts pull requests from other community members and there are some concerns about copyright so you're ichi you've talked a lot about the yellow paper in the past did you have any comments about that everything but biggest concerns that cove license so well I'm not really sure Digga be magical requests yes Gavin did and he is his name is on the paper as the author but that paper also contains paragraphs written by other people as well so bigger it's big mixture of people and then I think whoever who believes that have made a huge contribution to the Aero paper can have a veto at least to try modifications or whatever I think in the current status is very dangerous to get off paper modifications before protocol changes or if we put the yellow paper in any kind of formal procedure then some beetles write little decisive right to the copyright holders of the yellow paper whoever they are so it's kind of very dangerous okay so and just to make sure I understand so two things even or one thing you mentioned was that there's multiple authors on the yellow paper did I hear that correctly I'm not sure so how much I mean well I think one sentence maybe they'll be waiting well what might count I'm not sure I'm below you and nobody knows somebody listed as contributors video no paper they're all on the github teacher computers look I don't know if there's other contributors we have to consider but this would really just involve reaching out the it's 29 people and asking them for written consent so that's not a nun thing but I will point out that somebody should reach out to Gavin ahead of time and get prior authorization from him because previously when there was an attempt to realize some CBP etherium he was the one who blocked that yeah that's true and I know that people have reached out to Gavin about this issue and he hasn't acted on it so far I'm not sure the details of that so I won't speculate or put words in anybody's mouth but I will say people have mentioned this to him so he's somewhat aware of it the other thing is how out of date is the yellow paper yo eg cuz I know you do a lot of the pull requests I think it's worth talking about so there's a couple of things the yellow paper doesn't attempt to be a complete speak of of everything necessary to build a client so it's it only reflects the current state of aetherium so if you want to build something they can sync the chain before the current hard fork then you're out of luck you need to get out of band information and there's actually no formal specification for that information other than older versions of the yellow paper and even then you don't know the for block numbers and so on the wire protocol and other critical things about building the clients are also out of scope and I know a lot of people myself included feel that the yellow paper is very obscurantist and and difficult to read so for my part I would love to see an effort for a formal speak for aetherium other than the yard paper and for there to become the canonical specification but you know like most people who want it I don't have time to actually do that myself yeah and I am people didn't have a formal specification that can be executed that can run test cases so I mean it contains the folk-rock numbers and everything necessary to run blockchain tests I'm sorry what does hey IBM I just posted a link to it and the chat it's called ke VM and it is a formal specification for the EVM written in K which is a language and I think you eg mentioned that you can actually run tests off of this pretty pretty well right yes on the menu the markdown files specification actually the markdown files contain code snippets and these code snippets run our test cases but the overall document is marketing document so the format is I think the intention is to make it as a specification that can be read from the beginning to end [Applause] content wise these English sentences that sometimes like comments to the code but this can be improved I think under this one is licensed to property okay and you said this one is licensed did you did you mention what it was licensed under I'm trying to find it on the repo it's already know your license and so they told me that I might be but to me I based on a quick glance it looks quite promising to me I think it needs more informative text so that it's readable without having to to understand the entire languages to find it but I think it looks like a really promising route forward to me yeah it's um I think it's headed by Evan Hildebrandt who's a a really really smart guy and I've talked to the number of times so he he knows what he's doing it's licensed under something called UIUC slash in CSA and if the if it's executable as a test suite and that's even better yeah exactly that's pretty interesting okay so going back to the actual agenda questions or the questions that um I'll go ahead yeah the license is the same that LLVM slices on if if you want some examples of other projects with life on the same same one did you say the LLVM yes okay so it's not so so and thought because everything but it's not the mainstream as well yeah so are you familiar with the license do you consider it permissive some kind of BSD like but I don't know their details exactly they actually the LLVM is considering Apache to one but the switch seems to be quite hard to do with the hundreds of contributors there but it's probably at the same level Apple is is fine with that so it's kind of promise yeah any other comments yeah so I think AIP should be included in whatever formal specification ends up being the one that's mainly used or maybe even you know in any like at least one of the specifications it kind of depends on how strict we want to be at the EIP process so we've kind of answered the question about what could replace the formal specification of aetherium and if it's worth maintaining as a descriptive resource rather than prescriptive Nick you kind of touched on that to say that you think that because it's not up-to-date you find it more descriptive I would say well I think it's a very bad descriptive reasons because it's very hard to read I see um to add to that like this kbm document is something where while I don't necessarily know syntax for K it's something that I can learn but to actually like I don't actually feel confident that I could contribute to the very yellow paper and get all of the I don't know how to write the language that's in the yellow paper accurately that is it feels like something what it's that sciency language latex mathematical 'not just mathematical notation but but what it really comes down to is the ability to turn specs into that mathematical notation which is something that well I'm not an expert on and I got a math degree so I suspect if we went with the yellow paper we would have a much harder time keeping it up to date yes there's a limited number of people who are going to be capable of actually contributing the poor request to update hmm interesting yeah I I see I see your point there so I think that we should bring Gavin into this conversation just to see where his opinion lies to see if he wants to change the copyright or work towards something like that and either way KVM is gonna continue to be developed as my understanding and so if that's the case then we may not even need to you know do anything and we can just see where the community and where the developers start picking the standard from so it might be just something where consensus kind of wins out I I feel like we need I Eve formal standard well you know we need something where if there is a bug between two clients we can say yes this one is correct because it follows the standard or if neither of them do we can fix the standard or fix the clients and as long as I don't think we can entirely punt to just relying on one community consensus maybe you can comment on this I'm worried to be able to where we have a decision right now as to you know ok KBM is gonna be the standard that the yellow paper is going to be the standard or or whatever is this something that could fall under like dev grants to essentially fund some entity going ahead and getting this up to date because that's really one of the big problems here's is getting us back up to date all right I guess yeah and cinema's ation is definitely important so for those unfamiliar dev grants is a program that the etherium foundation ran that gives grant money to projects that help the underlying protocols and as and sometimes projects in the ecosystem so I believe there's been two runs of dev grants the latest one was completed in 2016 and right now dev grants is currently not up there are discussions to bring it back and to have a new class of dev grants recipients but as of right now there are no timelines or any other information for that just things that I've heard about so that would that is a really good idea though I agree I'd also be curious to know whether there's any way to run kV and against the state tests because we have a very comprehensive set of state tests but no real proof that they actually line up with any sort of specification and it would be good certainly for writing future tests as well to know whether they they line up with the fullness based on the blockchain test both formats you said it was compatible with both yo Ichi yes or I mean they added the JSON father and they added recover under so just do that cool okay what were you saying Piper I was saying that looking at the repo it looks like they have some support for the stage that's already right I mean I'm liking this more and more personally yep definitely an interesting project are there any other comments on the yellow paper stuff yeah I think we've been thinkin Brown invite Internet sort of okay that does sound like a good idea yo Ichi do you have a contact directly with Evan I think I can get ahold of them if not I mean I can't think the came by message with the next quality yeah if you I just didn't know if you had already talked to him cuz I know you keep up with some of the KVM team or in the past you've talked to them it might have just been during previous events though okay I think it was a little cool yeah so one of us will reach out to Evan that's not an issue any other comments on this next steps are basically gonna be reach out to Gavin reach out to Evan and get them on one of the cord to have calls to discuss this further Dimitri did you have a comment on on the EVM code description yeah you mentioned that that is unreadable in the current state so I try to describe it with English how each noodle opcode is working so I started this document I posted a link in the chat so maybe it's easier to understand from those descriptions okay that sounds good so if anyone's interested in that transition that that sounds good Oh a furry reached out to Gavin thanks a furry so hopefully he'll be on a future call or just let us know what his opinion is cool any other comments on this one okay the next item we're gonna actually go back to item number three because Paul's mics working if you want to go ahead with that yes this is definite in the process of actually removing some some components some CPP a Tyrian that we are not interested in maintaining there was idea to actually move them to a separate project that can somehow share some of the components that are not critical to the Hume note and in the description there is this in the agenda there's a description and github issue that there is some discussion on that and also a prototype is done in Python so the first feature I would like to have the race HTTP server for for RPC requests so we don't have to include HTTP server in every every client and there are some other ideas what can be added there later on so if anyone is interested in in having something like that or it also might be a candidate for dev grants as dev guns were mentioned in this meeting already but I just wanted to to share this and that's it so on the topic of kind of separating out components in the cpp client what's an example of some of the other ones that are being separated or is this one of the first ones yeah this is mostly the first one we don't also I'm sure we're gonna to to support whisper so yeah the other components actually question can we get up to date with the current state of the art with some subsystems we already have and sometimes answer is here would like to and sometimes answer is no we don't have resources at the moment to actually upgrade something like whisper for example so we actually we were preparing a roadmap for the next like half year and there's some issues so there are some some some upgrades listed there the other thing I was considering actually account management but that's that's probably a bit more complex so we actually don't have to if you have the proxy that handles RPC you don't actually have to have account management inside the node because the proxy can actually sign transactions for you and somehow change personal or peace request to draw RPC request so this is also the component we are considering that can be actually shared between some of the clients great okay cool and yeah that's interesting that you're either your branch the idea is to actually have support for if stats because what we have currently some note model nodejs model that it's not maintained anymore and it's actually actually hard to get it work so I know the go have the implementation of that so if we can show that implementation and also move it to this shirt like to link product that also can be can be used easily by different different notes implementations awesome anybody have comments on that so I think it's a great idea and I remember that like when I was working on this it was walking over here to do integrating HTTP and cross-platform support for it was like a great high school and like the HPD supports itself and brought a lot of unnecessary dependencies so I think that's a great idea for learning the proxy I see one issue with this approach so apparently by recalled correctly correctly there is no way to sign arrow message using your private key because for the artist occurs basically if sign is whenever you call if sign is pretending some arbitrary message before the data that you want to sign so I see this this this might be the only the only issue with the proxy but apart from that I feel like it it's a great improvement to see puss-puss fine I'm not exactly sure I have a complete thought here but related to the issue with design I think that that just highlights I don't know I like to see nodes moving further away from account management and not necessarily having account management features as an expected default because well that's just one extra bit of security overhead that puts on on creators of area nodes and account management is a really complex thing and even kinda standardized account management is complex because it's well we're still in the early stages and there's a lot of experimenting to be done so if this motivates us to put some further distance between nodes and account management I would actually yeah I agree my my after that so we're planning to move account management away from gap and a couple of steps to do it slowly but I have been implementing a separate account management tool which of the KPI which doesn't take any passwords at all instead of isness only for user videos to make me interact with trusted you I have this in our house and a remote node can submit transactions or data and to decide we use fine yeah I think it's works kind of like Pericles already done but it's easy it's pretty easy to move to some separate machine or to some USB armory or even apply machine but yeah I'm moving away coming from know this stuff like in lab and if it can be reused correct presented by Python or whatever that's right great win cool Merrick did you have a comment I saw you unneeded for a second agree with Piper great any other comments on any of this okay moving on to the next item proof of Authority test net unification update Piper is there any update on urine for that that's something we talked about last time about either creating a new proof of authority test net based on Casper or something related no there hasn't been any movement at all I've been had a crazy busy week and I'm hoping to actually initiate that this week so nothing nothing to report okay pardon me next we'll have core team updates so feel free to give any updates for your client improvements or releases or things like that we'll start with parity so offeree or Merrick feel free okay maybe all starts with free with with the party code base itself so currently we we are working on the release one point on it's not going to have any major features any major new features are so we are mostly working on stabilizing stuff we've added multiple new features which were not well acid and they and the number of issues in our and our kids have significantly increased so we are working on those issues and we are also working on improving our database layer so hopefully 31:39 will have a new database for accounts and code stop and codes so creating for example snapshots or just costing transactions inside VM should be sitting significantly faster because the weed operations from there from a disk will be will be absolute and times faster than they currently are and apart from that we are also working on party multi-state issues so we are currently most internally preparing a list of different approaches how we could address the problem and we would like to add this thing to the discussion about the proposals that we will present to the agenda on the next card that's a thing and we we are not you know what we will not try to push forward any any of those proposals we will just try it we'll just we just want to discuss discuss them with with that community and with you and you know see where we can go from there fine that's it from me I cannot up free you have anything to add ok yep I sure do you have anything to add if not I think we're good on parity I think oh no my crew if I see that now no problem ok yeah but feel free to add that to next week's agenda I'll try to put up this agenda earlier so y'all can add stuff to it so I'll be doing that thanks for the update Geth team I think that being Martin or Nick in this case I've been working on all of external stuff so I'm not in a good position to give an update on yes unfortunately yeah so you know I'm not really prepared that I'd be there but we recently roll out new release nothing major something we're working on us yeah improving the tracing though is probably a lot more efficient to the tracing and the continuous tracing of several blocks and span of blocks yeah I don't know what else to say without bitterest away on vacation mouse okay no problem let's see we got the C++ team that big Christian or Pavel yeah it's it's quite quiet here as well still in the post Mexico mode and so we mostly cleaning up all stuff related to to Byzantium for hard work some reviewing some old issues and also usually updating the IPs and me and Andre are preparing some we're having some discussion about some some roadmap for for bigger steps in in the CPP atrium team and that doesn't include that at tests work done by by Dmitry okay thank you Dmitry did you have any comments on that yes speaking of which so you asked about the function and if you get single test without checking a fielder so it's now done you could just type test each and specify single test then we use this for a test case name as usual but then you could provide another arm is the pastor a JSON file and doing it this way will not check its existing of a fiddler file also could they use create random test option with another argument additional argument to create random tests which specifies options file in which you could describe which probabilities will be used for generating a random test that's mostly to holy man and then GUI door ok cool cool shoutout Martin and guido sweet next we have aetherium J Anton or harmony I should say hello so in here iam J we migrated the client and onto the rugs DB and so we are going to make the same trick as as was made in imperative to avoid red count and in DB so this this should significant significantly speed up the importing of blocks so I think my rule should finish this on the next week and also me tree joint joint our team being so he he returned back integration with hive so as far as I know JJ was smushed into hive repository so that's it boom Nick did you have a comment yeah I assume the truck in question is exhorting the path of the current and the result of that is that the you can't support the Felice protocol because you can't win queried for a particular try knows about the context you don't know what keys look it up I and galloping was noting was that actually it's with very high probability the try as graph shaped because of the nature of the the keys are all cryptographically generated I can go into the more detail proof which ones interested so it may not actually even be necessary to do this in order to guarantee that it's graph shaped and therefore to avoid doing your friends counting yeah Anton did you have any comment on that or if not you can take it offline with Nick if it's something to dive into a little deeper yeah I think we'll continue applying please absolutely are you on are you on guitar Anton sorry are you on get ur chat yes I'm there ok great if you could post in the Alcorn dev channel and just put your get ur name and the Nick can know how to reach you mm-hmm okay thank you so much and yeah sounds cool that you're doing interoperability there next we have aetherium j s is there anyone in here who can speak on aetherium j s okay then we can move on to pi EVM or actually Alex did or do you have anything to say yet only thing I have to say is there there hasn't been any significant work being done lately and it's byzantium compatible and that's where it stopped at the moment okay sounds good pi viim so we largely just finished up a big github migration moving about ten repositories from my personal github under the nation get her lots of maintenance work I haven't published information about this yet but the repositories that were previously named aetherium - something or not and now all prefixed with eath - something to match essentially matching the repository name the Python library name and the actual module import name because there was some confusing stuff going on there all that's generally done and we're moved over under the foundation github which is nice high EVM specific we're closing it we're pretty far along at this point with the white client protocol and a brief conversation last night we are in a spot where we're pretty confident that we'll be getting a early alpha release of the actual client for pi IBM which we are currently calling Trinity release sometime soon soon being like a month probably part of that's going to be implementing json-rpc specs we're hoping to get integration of hive going there and the sharding research team has started implementation moving their sharding implementation over 2 pi EBM so part of that research starting on that code base which is really nice to see nice ok lots exciting Congrats on all that I don't think there's anyone here for pi aetherium or paya Thap so we'll move on from there anybody else have any oh go ahead I find a far away update I know that there is stuff moving along with Casper research with Casper test net I don't know exact specifics but I know that there's been some trial runs and running the actual kind of Casper test net using pi e theorem successfully so that's really cool to see happening in a in a real environment yes I saw there were some updates the ones I know about are that there has been a successful test net set up a closed environment obviously for Casper the Friendly finality gadget FFG which is Vitalik s-- implementation and ideation of Casper and then there's also a repository called Casper what is it oh it's it's Vlad's Casper version CBC maybe correct by construction that's right so Casper correct by construction has a repository now and some of the first coding implementation of that of that design so if anyone's interested the repositories I believe are under some name for Casper and the etherium repos if anyone's interested in that excuse me so I think that's the last thing did anyone else have updates or comments not anything they're working on yeah so I'd like to mention that there is a downside Keith's been working on a c-sharp client for areum and it's testing almost all state tests and VMs and yes he reckons it's about a couple of more months of work to have it kind of complete at this point it's build a private repository but if anyone's interested reach out to me and I'll forward you to him also on the curator the executor name if there's an interesting development in either solidity or even sorry it wasn't the catching to the first if I was wondering if you have an if there's anything newsworthy updates about a Weston or solidity well regarding he wasn't we have a roadmap line date and we aim to launch a preliminary test net by end of January and and for that we plan to do a get together to work on the actual components that's gonna happen in January so fingers fingers crossed for he wasn't and then regarding solidity there was a release made yesterday slash today and which had a few tiny improvements the biggest one really is the ABI and D fully implemented ABI decoding and encoding which supports trucks and everything which wasn't supported by the old ABI encoder and decoder and but in order to use that want me to specify an experimental flag and that we are really focusing on the SMT and the SMT solar in in holiday for next release as well as the intermediate language um I think I think those are the most important parts of it solidity great updates is there anybody else who has an agenda item that's not on the agenda that they want to bring up any comments or questions or anything okay good meeting everybody I think we hit exactly an hour and I've already made an issue for in the etherium p.m. repo for aetherium coordinate of meeting 30 so if you already have in mind what you want to talk about in two weeks on the 15th please put it in there I don't have the live stream linked up yet obviously but I do have four agenda topics and I'd love for people to add more so go ahead and get in there and add some stuff and everybody have a great two weeks we'll talk to you them yes I cheers everybody [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] 