[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] you [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] you okay actually I'm gonna close the door there's some doggies okay welcome everybody to the call let's see here today is a special meeting about Constantinople specifically so we're gonna go ahead and go through first the potential block reward reduction and how long to delay the difficulty bomb and then we're gonna walk through every Constantinople AIP to get an update on the e ip's themself there's any outstanding issues or questions that need to be solved or updates that need to be merged and then we'll go through client Constantinople updates if there's any of any ones that are important and then we'll go through Constantinople testing to see where we're at there and then if we have time we may talk about Prague pal changing the proof-of-work algorithm to be a sick resistant not sure if we'll get to that or not and we're gonna try to keep this under an hour cuz the agenda is pretty light but if it goes a little over well so Piper has volunteered to kind of start this going about the potential issuance reduction with some ideas so Piper take it away all right you guys sticking my neck out so there are three things on the table that I saw and that we listen to kind of generally get presented last time a please somebody correct me if I'm categorizing these wrong we've got a reduction to one a reduction to two and a heap that proposes to keep production the same but alter the uncle reward mechanism somebody confirm that that accurately represents what's on the table right now yes that does I would say that the uncle reward one is not very popular that I found but I'm not sure we should take it off the table necessarily we should discuss it that's fine can you tell me what it is that's unpopular about it is it the lack of issuance production or is it does it have to do with the actual uncle or mechanism I think it's because people don't understand it personally like I haven't seen community feedback on it because people don't understand the uncle reward mechanism so really that doesn't mean we should take it off the table because I'm sure someone in here understands it so we can discuss it um I'd like to actually ask the room that is there anybody here who has taken the time to truly evaluate it or is has seen a legit evaluation of that changed uncle reward mechanism alright silence in the room suggests that we need to take one more look at that so I'm gonna shift my perspective here a little bit my original suggestion was that we adopt a hybrid of that one to adjust the uncle roller mechanism as well as issuance reduction down to two there seems to be a pretty solid consensus that an issuance reduction is needed generally I'm a fan of moderation and we can always change this again at some point so - seems like a nice safe estimation and there's not gonna be like a I don't feel like there's a way for us to really narrow in on an exact value here and then the uncle reward mechanism was under the assumption that there was a decent amount of like kind of strong validity to the changed mechanism but I think that there's homework still to be done there so that one gets kind of shifted off to the side so I don't know I mean there's a lot of there's a lot of people's opinions at play here and there isn't an objective right or wrong because everybody's got different ideas about monetary policy and what the you know what we should be paying miners and all of these things so on some level here we just need to take a stab at something in the right direction and and go from there yeah um real quick I think that the IP 1295 the one that messes with uncle rewards I believe that one was actually basically a replacement for a IP or not a replacement but an alternative to the one lowering the issuance so if we do both things I think that's gonna lower basically that would be the equivalent of lowering the issuance even more to something like 1/8 and I think that so I'm seeing in the chat that's there was something like this might affect smaller minors I'm not sure if that's true or not so I'm a little hesitant to just say that the uncle reward mechanism is something that's been thought out enough but I would say that I don't think people would be happy combining the two because it was set up to avoid doing the two eath reduction in the first place I understand that and I think that you are correct in terms of what it was intended for I am maybe not speaking directly for so whenever I originally said I was gonna come in and and I had an idea of where we should go that was under the assumption that that had been evaluated well it sounds like it hasn't my real takeaway was that there is a game mechanic right now that that encourages uncle's and I thought that if we had a solid mechanism that was used to fix that that it would be prudent to adopt it but if we are not sure about that then then strictly going with an issue its reduction to two seems like a very sane and simple change I'd be loved to hear other people's feedback on that I'm gonna chime in with some of those things I said last time and that everything I view in the issue introduction in the context of group work is kind of like incremental compromise to get us to kind of encourage the community keep things moving sanely until we move the proof mistake the mudra for mistake we're targeting say 10% of all ether stake at in the range of five percent return per year so you're looking you're looking at like 0.5% instruments at that point or even at one percent issuance at that point which I think the community will be certainly happy and so I again like this is all just incremental compromise until we get to that that end goal and I think - in my opinion satisfies that an incremental compromise so yeah I would agree with both of you but - seems a good good enough step in the right direction but regarding the whole uncle issuance thing so I as far as I understand it the change is that we keep the uncle reborg but remove the nephew reward which means that the guy who included the uncle that's sorry know the minor gets a reward but not the one who included it is that correct or is it the other way around that sounds right to me but I'm not gonna bet on it for my memory because if it's that kind of fear of the incentive to include anyone elses locks which is a bit odd and I don't know it seems a bit unbalanced to reward one of the guys but not the other I mean obviously you should reward the one a mind block which did not become canonical it should I mean it's fair to give him something something because it does contribute to the total difficulty in bringing the chain and this shows been incentive to include the block and not only include the ones from your own pool or the ones that you collaborate with whatever so I don't really understand the the idea behind setting one of those who works to zero yeah but then I'm not an expert on that EEP so if anyone can explain it that'd be great I mean so what what I'm singing sorry is that VIP 1295 is explicitly conflicting with the idea to reduce the block we bought to two E's and I think merging them into a hybrid version doesn't make any sense in my my eyes and I think we should go with to East so I agree with my everyone also speaking up forces and because this is like the the most moderate proposal we have right now there a lot of voices at one to like we'd use block with what one is because you don't know we have we have a look like a strong strong user base of investors that want to really reduce issuance as much as possible but as much as possible but we also have like we had some - in the last call that said they would agreed to a small reduction but they would probably and sorry and that's why I think we should go with to block and regarding uncle IP I think it would be nice to have like feedback from someone who initially designed the anchor rewards because for me it appears that uncle and nephew rewards are not entirely broken and changing this is like a deep technical like disruption or is he important code works and I would be careful with this so I just posted a link yeah Dana you're saying the exact same thing I am basically the so that you he's the beginning of his analysis is quote I'm scared of this and then goes into a brief analysis of why he doesn't think it's a good idea it goes back and forth that even so there's like multiple comments by him back and forth with the author of the IP so that I've been kind of skimming through it and it's it's very interesting conversation I link to it it's linked in Gator it's also linked in the zoom chat for those who want to take a look cool so that sounds like there is sufficient skepticism or just uncertainty about the uncle mechanism so I think we can drop that off the table unless anybody wants to advocate to keep that on the table question the uncle function the reward a function of the block word or is it a an absolute number it's defined in terms of block rework okay cool cool so it'll be effectively scaled down with us going down yeah yeah and the biggest I think metallics biggest argument in the comments was that there would be risk of large minor centralization and that also there's better ways to just the uncle and cinema's ation in order to convince anyone on the network to not have hi uncle rates including large miners that's what I invited he speculates that it might encourage miners to adopt a simpler technique to cut down their uncle rate which would be just to stop accepting transaction which empty blocks which we don't want to encourage and we've seen that before as well if I recall I forgot when but I feel like we've seen it before there was a miner who was including empty blocks I think it was during times of large congestion particularly yeah it's happened yeah right during attacks will have lots of problems yes so it sounds like we have I'm not gonna assert that there is consensus but it certainly seems like there is a decent amount of concern around choosing the issuance reduction - - here does anybody want to advocate for doing something different or does anyone want to advocate against doing that hey can you guys hear me yep yep yeah I would advocate against going with - just there's a link to a a reddit comment from batalik here that issuance is a key economic parameter this is from a year ago at the end he said issuance is a key economic parameter and I personally don't feel I or the foundation or client developers have the authority to dictate this perhaps it's worth some kind of boat so the only boat we've had so far is the ether chain carbon boat style coin boat where people said that you know there's a clear preference for going down to one either and not that I'm against reducing to two but but what's the what's the kind of boat - I guess it makes me uncomfortable just to have a client developer meeting where we dictate or client developers to take that what we think one is is too low so let's just go with what it's dictate - I'm sorry can I comment on this yeah American so so I try to expense I saw a lot of comments on on reddit and on github that say oh look there's a car in boat it's like a massive massive coin boat and everyone voted for like what one is but it's really important to keep in mind so this is like only one part of the issue income you that hold eath likes it let's call them investors because they hold ease and they are naturally intense incentivize to vote for having like a very low block reward but we also have other stakeholders in the community like for instance - that in incentivize - like keeps the issuance at a stable right or even increases because so that's like totally orthogonal - to what this coin voters actually suggesting and what we are doing here is not to dictate and you block reward but we try to find like a compromise sir somewhere in the middle and agreeing on two E's per block is like the best thing we can do yeah I would like to come as well so if we look at that coin vote and their salt say favouring a reduction to one I think we should take that as you know an expression of of will the will to lower it but I think we also need to be conservative with the changes and make changes incrementally and not like dictate something that goes against the will of the community but yes apply some conservative metric measures from doing changes even so but trying to keep with the with the like intent of the community combined with the fact that we're delaying the difficulty BOM not getting rid of it so this conversation at some point in the medium future will come up and we will also at that point have a little more context as to where the mistake changes are at and so a conservative step in the direction of the community wants and then re looking at this in a set timeline make some also I want to I don't like the term dictate there because I don't know as a connotation that doesn't exactly feel fair to what the process is but maybe I'm just picking it semantics here I think that it's basically what potala was saying is there doesn't need to be this cabal of people making a decision that there shouldn't because I noticed in your quote from him the word community wasn't mentioned so I think that almost implied that it needs to be as close to a consensus from the community as possible and then we just implement the code but because there is no mechanism and point about in my opinion isn't a good measure at this point it might have it's arguable that it was in the past but I don't know if it's for this particular issue a great measurement in my opinion I would say that because of all that the fact that we're trying to implement what the community wants rather than dictate it kind of shows that we don't have a better way of deciding this that we have to decide this because we're implementing it and there's no one else able to effectively know how to have a signaling method from the community to make an for sure decision okay so the so the Carver vote was one type of boat then last week there was the call where miners you know we took a poll from miners and most of them seem to be comfortable with - but not with one so the decision here to reduce to - it's sort of a compromise between the extreme preference of the carbon blow to go down to one and miners being more comfortable with - but I also don't think it's necessary - to choose a number an exact number today especially the block reward you know the more important part of thing to decide time as the was a proof-of-work change but I don't know I think there should be another opportunity for the community to vote or signal however they want I'm not sure there's been enough time the I mean how many days was that was that carbon boat even running for the carbon felt was running for a month if I recall yeah and that's not that's not very long our vision vote is also just a really poor signaling that conducted one it's one signal another signal is patrol box which is kind of resoundingly one-point-five right now another signal is the miners which was and we like where we're at but to is reasonable there's a lot of signals and and the miners also said Prague POW was one of the conditions not like absolute condition but they were saying that is more important to them than the issuance reduction and if there is an issuance reduction we want a real conversation about ASIC resistant Pao algorithms yeah I guess in summary and I don't feel that the that these signals are coming across cleanly enough there's there's a lot of noise and just saying that you know well to sounds right because it's in between one and three I'm just not fully comfortable with that yeah I the modern idea of how we can get a better signal because I mean what were the chances that will have better signal a month from now or two months from now I mean why postpone a decision that there's no indication that you know we will have perfect data later on I also want to reiterate the point with Nate which was that this is effectively a compromise in what we think is the right direction with knowledge that things are going to change as the state comes in yeah the the reason that we're having to decide it today Casey was we previously had discussed the fact that if we want to hit the deadline of before Devcon for launching this hard fork which at this point is still I'm still myself skeptical that we're gonna be able to do that we would need to as quickly as possible decide every change that's going into the heart of the hard fork so the Dmitry and others can properly create the test cases and edit the test cases and create new ones for changing the block reward therefore it needs to be decided today because for the last month we've been saying let's decide it next time let's decide it next time so from my perspective it needs to be decided today but if enough people want it to be delayed that's definitely something we can consider and I agree with you that the signals have not been clean so that's that's something something to consider certainly yeah those are all fair points I just wish there was a better way to get these signals I've always thought glowstick governance so I don't think we have enough good tools for people to wave their glow sticks around and signal their preferences and I wish we did but ok yeah who else has comments on this bi kind of I echo your sentiment and to decide this or have us look like we're dictators but that's gonna be how it is until we find a better way who else has comments until we move towards a long-term issuance policy related to food mistake which we can we'll be and should be a huge conversation at that point but you know it's the protocol being set up for 5e per block was kind of a short term vision for proof work vision and it's been longer and we've produced and it's been longer and we reduced or and we're talking about reducing and I you know incremental incremental compromise until we get to the vision I have a no strong opinion on whether we should reduce rewards whether we shouldn't do that but if we want to reduce your words as for me it should be definitely do it so first the IPA with one it can be removed from the table as for me so it looks like we just need to decide on whether we want to reduce rewards an autumn if yes we we are going with to eat the work that's it okay I'll go ahead Piper so there's been one dissenting voice from Casey on on using on choosing to as the issuance I feel like I've heard reasonable support for that as well as anybody else want to speak out against to or in or to push for a different option additionally I kind of want to add does anyone have a so sometimes with rough consensus from what I've read a good thing to do is to also state does anyone have a strong enough opinion that they're like over my dead body is this going to happen yeah I guess so to clarify my objection it would be to go with two on the condition of a of a switch to P o W so it's not over my dead body but it would be yes conditional on changing the PIO w kc when you say that do you mean conditional to changing it in this next heart fork or to committing to like can you give some context to that well there's not enough time to evaluate prog P o W be for delaying the difficulty bombs then I would argue to leave it at three and then do delay the bomb and then change the reduce the boss reward at the time that the we change to drug P o W so the only problem is what if we don't change to Prague P o w yeah I have the same issue to be evaluated further yeah I only should be separate personally yeah I'm I'm I'm having trouble understanding a strong reason to to force these to be linked together but I'm happy to hear that justification yeah I guess there is a it does make sense to link reducing the block reward to delaying the bomb but there's also a lot of signal from the community that they want to change the work algorithm so it's it's hard for me to today well we'll listen to the one about reducing the block reward but we're not going to listen to the one about changing the group of work algorithm no so just so that we can jump into that because we can we can skip ahead to that while we're discussing this since it's something that's related me and Powell has been looking at prog powr I've been facilitating some discussions between miners and other people who've been working on F minor and other tools so Paul without you knows and can you kind of give an overview of what you've seen so far from prag powr what your opinion might be on it if you can if you haven't read enough or seen enough or gotten enough opinions about it you don't have to go into detail but otherwise if you can kind of explain if you have a viewpoint on it so you want to comment from the previous discussion I think it's hard to decouple the issue reduction and and the proof of work change because like both affect miners so and that's that's why I did they are it and so I was very skeptical about this one week ago and I'm less now so like I'm trying go issue by issue and I think Oh big technical stops from this in the specification but I think there's there's a lot of to to investigate over time so definitely it's not feasible to have it probably not this year even because there's a lot of changes required I mean it's not only training the algorithm but it's also how mining infrastructure that depends on that and and also the way we're going to switch so I stole my opium is we cannot considering that to be included in Constantinople in anyway I saw some slight concern in the fact that potentially some of the changes might be vendor-specific and that they might inch trench a certain vendor of GPUs did you were you able to investigate that or yeah I personally the Oh got a girl who was on here the last time or no not the last time the last time we talked about Prague pal months ago they talked about how there was a review and a blog post by some major vendors and I need to verify that but so far it's looking like I'm gonna be able to independently verify that so when I do I can come back with results on that as can Powell but that's something where it's a it's kind of an issue of not wanting to be too specific on that but to independently verify it and have a few of us kind of have that verification before we move forward declaring that there might be vendor specific issues with it because so far everybody from the Prague powd team has said there's not so yeah I don't have definite answer for that yet but yeah we working on this and one of the things we can do it here is is just to take the software and benchmark big set of GPUs with that and like compare results how much so that that can became it think we can we can bring him back to the technical technical issue so the expected heart rate decrease is by two it should be exactly by two because that's that's how the memorial bandwidth requirement is increased but we don't have the number and and in case we we be more likely considering this change I think we can start benchmark benchmarking different GPU models from from from this day actually so but but also like I think we should be more or like like we should I don't know how to say it we did I don't want to waste a lot of time on that in case like we are not come convinced we at least should always unless we not committed to do this change I'm not saying like we definitely will do but these committed in the sense we review all the issues and in case there's no technical problems the change will happen I wouldn't go that far personally but I would say that we should commit to investigating it to the fullest extent we can and then having a discussion on it however that discussion because of this won't be going into Constantinople for sure the earliest it would go in as July if we do an eight month delay so if we do an eight month delay the earliest it would go in as July so the literally Assad the earliest that we can make a final decision on it would be late October so that would give us plenty of time to evaluate it between now and then and start to come to consensus or have votes on that so I think that's a good sign and I've made it crystal clear to the miners who have who are communicating with me that it would be at least June before this is implemented so they're not going to be caught off guard at least the ones I've talked to including the Prague POW team is anyone from the proper team on I'm still pretty skeptical about its ability to resist Asics and haven't heard a lot from them since the original they were supposed to be on the last call but something came up and I purposefully did not want any minors or proponents of the issuance reduction on this call because that would basically we did that last week and I don't think everyone hashed out their arguments and I don't think it would have been necessary to rehash that however prog Pao wasn't brought up in details so I see your point that there should be someone in here but because the decision for prog Pao won't be made until right before or right after Constantinople I didn't see us in my opinion I didn't see it worth it to bring them on for this particular call but and and in hindsight and probably would have been a good idea I don't think that's a big deal like we have time on prog pal and we have not a lot of time on Constantinople so I'm wondering if we can reshift back towards figuring out what if anything we're going to do for consent yes please yeah but I'd like to have it I I kind of agree with Powell that it would be good if we come to rough consensus or we go I mean if if it looks good are we going to go with profile and explicitly kind of state that because it is useless it's how well and Nicky and whoever spends a long time and does a lot of work and then we just yeah so I have problem with what would Piper propose because usually how it worked like we have this hard fork and like ten four months nobody is actually doing kind of thing towards the next one and so who I I don't think like I think we have time like change anything we just probably will come back to this discussion like two months before the next one the next bomb increase is not I know that historically that's been the case you are currently talking right now a lot about trying to get on a better schedule so but to investigate that so so my difficulty in actually having an opinion on Prague now is that I am NOT an expert enough in the topic to have an opinion on it so frankly I need somebody who is a trusted expert in this to actually make that call I'm happy to implement if it's what we choose I'm not excited about spending dev time on a new proof of work algorithm but that doesn't mean that I won't get on board if there's consensus that it's that it's the right thing for us to do mm-hmm okay so yeah so I kind of like I'm not so excited about it as well wow I would prefer not to do that personally if like I don't want to actually spend time but if that's necessary I'm happy to and and and I think the one of the the problems you mentioned is like we actually don't have experts at the moment so like one of the one of the problems we have to solve we have to find them to actually do to get information from them about this proposal because I I'm I think nobody from the this is let's say core Core devs team that usually come up to meetings are qualified to investigate that so I think most of my work and had some work where they where there are 13 claimed it was 100% done why don't we invite them to launch a chest net with with drugco yeah they I've heard they haven't implemented it a guess I haven't confirmed that I haven't heard that from the Prague POW team specifically but I've seen other people say it's done so they've had a lot of they've had a lot of good implementation and they say that they I think that should be if we talk about it again they should be on the next call and I think that we should move on to issuance reduction again to see if we can make a decision on that today but it sounds like there is a trend toward getting a lot of data on prog pal okay I just like quickly one comment to this I think they have a lot of code that's that true I've seen they have code for for if her library a the CPU one who have code for if minor that it's mostly for GPUs but on the other hand it's it's it's just a fork and it's quite far away from being integrated to the main branches of any of these okay thanks for the clarification do we have an evaluation of how harmful Asics are current main net we didn't well we have ancillary evidence from other blockchains about centralization risk but that is also up for debate and argument and so that would be a whole nother discussion but the curve at the ant to answer your question we have enough evidence to discuss it okay because this to me it should be a main consideration whether do we want to improve proof-of-work algorithm or not because if there is not big physics now big miners become more powerful yep so why why because this is I understand prop poets like make your hardware more efficient so if you have more hardware it will be more efficient even more from now and if you have more hardware than someone else so we will come powerful I mean know it changes the if proposes to changes change the the amount of hashing power per piece of hardware proportionate so you're still fortunately the same part of the network how so there is a linear dependency right yeah it's just it's on a per GPU you know you don't get any scaling by having mostly oh yeah yes I get ideally sorry I'm starting to panic a bit because we are not just cussing any items for the next hard and we only have 10 minutes left yeah we should we should go back on a she introduction for sure Piper I'm just now it was the same thing steering um so we've got there's been voice so Casey has expressed opinions against just choosing to there's a decently broad acceptance that to is a has support as a conservative choice can we make a decision on that does anybody want to throw any new ideas in or cover a different topic or bring something back up regarding reducing issuance and whether we should or should not choose to this also needs to be discussed in the context of the the delay in the difficulty bomb I know a meeting or two ago we had said okay if we're targeting eight months hard works then we'll do a 12-month difficulty delay started comically I just need to make sure that we're talking about a few things at once because there couple than a Yeti yep I am I am on I'm still on the same page of liking that plan of twelve months away at an eight month work and yeah that's what I'm thinking as well anyone has opposition of that now is a good time to talk about okay couple more moments here and speak now or forever hold your peace I believe this is us making the decision to reduce it to issue Institue to do another hard fork eight months after constantinople and to push the difficulty bone to 12 months after constantinople all right that sounds like consensus to me or at least lack of opposition yeah I agree yay we did it anyways so the VIPs the car to delay the to reduction ERP have correctly and this will be one a free doesn't know so that need to be updated before yeah yeah okay I can update this and puts us on what's the next step is it last coy next step is last call right neck consensus VIPs don't currently have last call it would go from draft to accepted that's right so just to clarify we just resolved to adopt and yeah IP that hasn't yet been written no no it's one two three four with a slight change to do the do the bomb defusal for 12 months right but you can't make us plate change to a finalized VIP like Nick just dirt from draft Casey can we not argue semantics here we can we can just a small number like that and that eat without it with the phone like everybody here knows that that isn't the giant shape I mean it is a draft at the moment isn't it yeah it's in draft at the moment I I agree semantics are not vital for today without putting the so basically we can't move the heap to final yet we'll have to do that between now and the next meeting but we can say that we are going to move it to final once changes have been made and I think that's appropriate enough Casey do you disagree yeah I didn't want to argue semantics I just wanted to double clarify that what was just adopted hasn't hasn't been written yet yep yep i okay that sounds good okay and then great so we've come to a decision on that so let's really quickly what time is it we got five minutes we can probably go a couple minutes over maybe if people have to drop off that's okay but there's nothing controversial about bitwise shifting that's already been implemented in some clients speak up if that's not the case what we're doing right now by the way is going through each AIP and seeing if there are any outstanding questions are there any outstanding questions on skinny create - when I was looking at the thread it did not look like they were oh okay so there's one thing but it's a pretty small thing there's an error in this integrates to test so I guess that this has been wrongly implemented is TPP ethereum and clarify both yes imperative implemented collisions on skinny create - if there is an account which does not have a nonce and does not encode but does have storage then it will be white that overwritten and I just realized so that this doesn't matter on main that's because a minute session accounts would be empty and thus already collected upon touch so doesn't matter but yeah so there's a consensus issue and telling us is for creative okay but it sounds like that can be resolved in the chat right yeah or in the EIP thread either one I think this is a way to create such an account on the main that why not no once my been a shoe yeah right not a shoe mm-hmm I says I'm the spirit of Cerreta : case at this point yeah yeah so we can go to the next one okay thank you anybody else have anything on skinny create two okay does anyone have any issues for EXT code hash the OP code for it's a EIP 1052 actually we haven't done much testing of Xcode - well I actually don't think that there might be an issue in this but the reason why we found this issue for create do is because we started running some tests and for extra sure we are not running any tests yet got it and then we're gonna have more meetings like this Dmitry so well basically if there aren't tests written yet and we find issues later we can discuss it in the all core devs chat or in the all core devs meetings or if we have special meetings like this because I don't think we decided if we're gonna have these actually every other week which would mean we have a meeting every Friday did we decide that or did we not decide that the last EIP is net gas metering for s store without dirty maps that's 1283 did we resolve issues with that I remember there were a couple and I think we resolved them and we updated the EIP cool sounds like that's gonna go fine as far as clients go it's about create two so one is so we go with definition where the empty account for for account being empty where we ignore the storage is it like consistent with the other rules we have oh did I get it wrong it's actually consistent with each 684 which was accepted and applied retroactively Li to deal with the case where and that was when we discussed the first version or creative and then it was reflectively decided the rules for collisions that they depend only unknowns and okay but it's different for for a state clearing EAP or it's saying sorry so difference because stating he cares about value as well whereas 684 doesn't care about value this change to create two that changes Jeffery to catch rack two five six and that cannot be merged and maybe we couldn't work around with a link in this in his duty to murder that and just do it without his consent yeah if there's a solution to an EIP that's going to the Metallica's either as it basically agreed on but not updated in a technical way you can start implementation and testing without the EIP being updated as my opinion so things don't slow down and then we'll really push for it to be updated but I'm every meeting and like this it seems not to want to be a soft so I'm just changing the naming for for the heart functioning the CIP sounds good to me anybody have a dissenting opinion I'm sorry I can can you repeat the question or what we're Tony can I tried I know I met him I don't see an issue with changing the name and I would be surprised if italic objected but I can't actually speak for him can you can you down into the past message him and get him on record of saying that's fine okay thanks okay that's all okay anything else on the EIP s before we actually we're basically out of time but we'll go through client updates real quick for those who could stay on can I send this up real quick we have four EPS that are going into Constantinople 145 but why shifting 10:14 skinny create sin 52 X code hash and 1283 net gas metering without dirty maps and those are all accepted and we are all on board with those being before consent elope Constantia no bleeps and then also was one two three four is done yep right okay and can I speak absolutely Alex they actually had a Annie proposal but I added it only a couple of hours ago onto the DPM a list and it wasn't really placed onto the agenda but it's something I would like to discuss at some point and it's AIP 1352 I'm not sure if anybody ever looked at it apart from Nick I will paste it into the chat so that people can view it and then is it okay if we talk about it next coordinate meeting just bring it all up because it's not going in to Constantinople but it could go into the next hard fork or whatever we need to do unless it's urgent or like really really really urgent I haven't read this but Alex does this actually change consensus there is this more of a conceptual change I don't think it would teach consensus there's only one there's one line in the IP where there's a comment from Nick is this even worth checking for so that would be the only consensus critical part mostly yeah so if just everyone just looks at it outside of this meeting then I think I would say 99% this doesn't really change anything and it could go into Constantinople we're more likely to be simultaneously all hit by meteors them referred to things could you repeat that Nick I got cut out for me I I said we're more likely to all be simultaneously hit by meteors than forces I think consensus all right yeah go Piper so I just at a glance this looks great but I wonder what we get like can we just sleep this for the myth hardcore since we like putting it and now it doesn't really change anything is the valid row chair I mean why delay in that case yeah but yeah I would suggest to discuss this next week yes everybody should have a look at the pipeline yeah so we can discuss it next and one or two weeks depending on when we decide the next meeting is and and then we'll also go ahead and we can we don't have to wait until the hard floor actually happens to implement it if it's not needed for a hard fork so we can do it before then but we'll talk about that in a week or two yeah since it's overtime I don't does anyone think we need to give client updates I have that Constantinople tracker and it's pretty much up I don't I don't think we should we normally do in every two weeks and unless anybody has anything they want to explicitly surface I don't see I need to go to buy these updates you know what we marked the last from from big four last year implementation today so we can start tonight interesting for off the floor so I would like to propose that we put together working group for power to look into that and that those persons can yeah I regularly kind of present where they are asked and what what is how it feels how prop power seems to behave and I don't know who would be in that group maybe power well maybe Nick yeah they could reach out to people experts and you had some yeah I also wanna mention that although would there's potential for grant here if there's some sort of GPU experts that wants to do benchmarking or something like that but there's gonna be there to bring any more data if they would agree to actually do some benchmarks and check out the the Steve miner implementation of Prague Paul and and something like that maybe we can continue this in the chat in awkward EV yeah that sounds good we've agreed that we're gonna have a group together for that do we want a meeting in one week or two weeks personally I would go two weeks just cuz I don't think there's gonna be anything major updated in the next week and there's gonna be some of us at Berlin and then a second event that I forgot about in Asia I think two weeks sounds good to me yeah it makes sense yeah okay two weeks it is we will have a meeting in two weeks I will remind everybody a little more often probably does anyone want a calendar invite we should get that together I think that'd be a good idea also we will be starting exactly on time in two weeks yeah that's another change two weeks starting exactly on time instead of waiting like five to ten minutes after so so the calendar invite will be for five or ten minutes before the time that's a good idea yeah let's do that all right I think we're all good here thanks everybody a big shout out to Piper for directing a lot of the conversation thanks so much and we will see you guys in two weeks have a great day or night thanks everybody bye [Music] [Music] 