okay let's see is anybody from parity here yo our canoes here right I'm here yeah Oh welcome are we get it's not all the lessons that the main yeah if you could go if you haven't set your name go to the top left corner and there should be like a little box with the face click that and change your display name okay come office can you hear us now yep it's a huge you're working great i haven't used to do before submitting nice awesome awesome am i pronouncing that right because i always have trouble with that name but on perfect okay I think everybody's here so let me go ahead and pull up the agenda and yeah the agendas and the el cortez gator it's in the PM repository so the first item on there is going to be should we set up like a recurring meeting time we usually do like a google doodle but people that asking if we can just set up like a you know always on the state this time so a suggestion that i had was the first and third friday of every month at 1400 UTC so pretty much this time first and third friday of every month is there anybody who has a better suggestion or anything that's a deal breaker for that time no but thank you could you link the genigan absolutely let me send it out on skype and on get ur awesome place is that a particular reason for doing friday instead of thursday up because the last few times fridays to be like the least busy for people but yeah I'm okay with Thursday's as well just kind of depends on what people think and what we might do is there's going to be some days that you know there's going to be conflicts with a bunch of people missing like Ed con and Paris coming up on the fourteenth februari so we'll have to change it but I'm just thinking we try I just thinking we try Fridays 1400 see how that goes would 14 be better Martin yeah great all right I said 49 it's Thursday oh yeah doesn't really matter but yeah I propose i said but definitely meyer i think it's we could give it a go through regular well and it doesn't make cell phones sorry sounds good great so the next item I'll just start setting that up and like send out invites and stuff ok so the next one is Christian about eip 8 and that one is the gas cost for return value so Christian you can take it away thanks so yeah we discussed it for quite some time already and if I remember correctly there was a proposal last time which was waiting for the confirmation by parity and I think icarly was present and he said that he not at liberty to decide about that it's that change in the meantime no not really we haven't discussed it here in detail but do we have any anyone from parity right here that's what I mean yeah i'm here i'm currently and can you make decisions about the design of the consensus changes in parity or not disciplined and we beat will be happy with anything we can always have a situation where we can have like a very tentative yes with a 24 hour 48 hour period for kind of final comment on that or someone else from the parity team has any issue we can just let them know to be no sand in their comments in that time so then I would propose that of limiting that right yep and so to be honest I don't remember the exact details of the two alternatives but I guess most of the works does not have to do with that in the decision yeah we're going to be redoing the eip soon so Christian I'll get with you on formalizing that one from an issue to a PR so then once we get the implementation and we can just reach out to all the teams and relevant people about that good okay so yeah unless there's any other comment on that one we can just run on to the next one also on the left upper line element oh yeah sure and this was before were like Jeff and def I'm the Sonics for you guys so it's about implementing these and require code I hope both calm so it looks like Jeff dropped off for just a second and I don't know where metallic is me Smee oh sorry sir what was every question everyone okay well yeah turn off the video to save bandwidth what's someone saying are sore yeah / go yes and if I was wondering if you you have one of the science implementers if you have any thoughts about this dynamic spirit I'm so um I think most famous always I mean I mean the same as it was before i'm happy to influence i think it's fine I mean we've been discussing this now for over two or maybe even three equals or Core calls and I think I think it's about time that we actually do something that's could you hear Martin sometimes some people cannot hear some other people yeah and you answered all right just arose and I couldn't hear him hmm oh yeah just do you hear me Chris okay yeah I'm just let me just finish it it's all on board with us okay good so let me just real quickly yep yep and one big Chris can you hear me now Chris yes now I hear you okay okay cool so I said as in the previous discussions that we have had over the past three four and I know how many calls we've had about this I think it's fine I think we should implement it and I think we have been postponed and expertise for too long I think an answer is in you know I'm not in a liberty to to make a decision and then I don't get someone that can make it efficient or you know don't I mean you know we've got to do something yeah so if if Gavin is that the person that can make a decision get them on the call here and otherwise you know i think this has been the third call the ford call maybe I think we should we should just are they we should do it we should implement them sounds good um so just real quick about the process for these decisions and eat so this was actually the last agenda item but it's probably better that I bring it up now the new AI p process has a more defined way of you know getting through EEP so there's going to be just a little bit more of a formal method we're still going to be using you know just general consensus and meetings like this and other things to you know come up with if Annie could move forward but things are going to be waiting in queue for months anymore as long as they have you know pretty general consensus and we can quickly get together with those to the main parties so yeah that should fix things a lot but yeah sounds like everybody's in agreement on that pending any more comments from parity and we wouldn't check an encore des channel for that on the top left side because I think someone just asked if there is a chat if you open the shared document on the top left it's like it looks like the little document icon that opens up an easier pad so we can just use that and I'm taking notes and I'm going to release those on the github afterwards will you will you be responsible for that every call would be good to know yes I'm responsible for that every call unless otherwise stated so I would just yeah i'll just let someone know if I'm not here something that I can hey Roman Kira uh yeah I was umbro man Alex um victaulic hey guys heroes I can't get enough ok cool you did she get anything of the conversation that we've just heard um I personally dropped out a few minutes ago when someone asked me about to the edl return gas that yet da the night said that I was fine with like every version of it ok I actually I didn't hear you but school Nam anyone but you can hear is no fun yes yes yes without work you better internet yeah what we might need to switch to some guys it looks like there's enough people who are dropping let me see yeah so I i mentioned it on crimes for but so we've been i I'm not suggesting the week that we do this now but maybe for the next time we we switch to discord we've had some you know we've had pretty good experience with a Stefano drop out no weird I mean we have some weird Croatia like the ones who you have right now but things seem to be improving rapidly they seem to be doing a lot of improvements and they seem to deploy code every now and then so that's good discord please look into that might be might be away for it we're grams yeah I think I think it's a good idea i've used it before um i would say that because we're having enough trouble does anyone know if skype supports 19 people unlike I'm totally open to what trying to trying discord next time around I don't think so I don't think so i think it's a corset pellicano it and again even less okay we're going to keep trying this for the time being then i'm really doing those after so i'll just let everyone know we kind of have to go through this way but we're are some options for people to troubleshoot so well that's happening let's go ahead and the next one is also a Christian talking about pre-compiled for a lift at curved point edition and a number of other topics on that so this is basically about adding precompile for or yeah enables the case locks on helium and I forget about re organism I had some kind of research session in December and at first we try to keep the the precompiled as flexible as possible support multiple curves that we can switch the different curve with some curves Churchill not to be bad but it looks like this can't really be done there are no generic elliptic curve edition or in general and sicker population implementations because we would meet so we of course have to assign gas costs to every precompile and there's no way to do that in a real generic fashion so I would propose to concentrate or to implement precompile exactly for the elliptic curve you study cash and a particular one elliptic yeah one MC curve on traditional precompile one scalar multiplication precompile and one pre-compiled for the for a pairing function the ok the pairing function perhaps I also should say something there so in general it's the quite complicated thing that maps a point that takes two points or two different ellipticals and map them to a rather complicated finite field and all of these in all of these we could potentially run into representation problems because there's no really not a unique way to represent elements from the pet but the good news is that we can instead of implementing this pairing function we can it's precise us to implement a pairing checker which basically just returns true or false depending on whether the result is the identity or not in the target troop and that removes the need for a complex set to find the complex encoding of this complex on a field and so what remains for the specification is just too yeah fix and encoding for these two elliptic curves for points for these two little code and of course yet your time Gasca wet yep so I have a kind of working group here in Berlin to work out the details for that I would like to hear general opinions about this from the other hey could you link to the indicator channels be if we want to make the sum of the precompiled slightly more generic well one thing that we could do is we could make the addition and multiplication via support any curves that have like any be parameter so the a parameter would be of the curve would be 0 but the beep what the be could be anything one reason why this kind of slight increase in generic mrs.nice is because it also covers the sexy 256k one curve that we use already for geeky recover so what we give for what's probably you actually might even be a hero complex it again because the addition form in formulas are I believe our independence of be if we had gadgets a bit more support for the fairly small point so you're saying we can make the realistic curve operations the pic emotionality could not be pairing that's correct the belief so making making the pairing more generic xik might be harder actually you know what hold on let me edge actually check for my code right now I'm just going to check if they're like where the A's and B's are not every time I guys think you cannot hear how soon is that true yes I am cannot hear okay oh it's not important but I was just going to say Christian could you up just a link to the CIP or anything about the specification but in general i'm fully on board was being a parent orientation the one thing that's worth adding is from an implementation standpoint as I believe she's showing that does have that set hearing implementation in a rut right I think so they're shifty implementations in rust and in C++ yes what is the best thing to think about Cook's how I think about it no retina so we would need to find either find an implementation or reimplemented and go yeah go around basically the creek offseason recover yeah of course well I mean so the only see dependency that we have is the under-recovery functions and assigning ops but I don't know that we would probably need to implement it ourselves and as far as I know victaulic is already implemented ingo so that could serve as a good example and other than that you might be able to help if necessary we'll find a way I guess yeah so we're not too keen on C++ dependencies because this kind of break our complete cross-compile ability so that would suck big time because we can right now we can compile them any platform and adding a C+ dependency would probably break up yeah I see next time on the toilet keeps dropping our things I'm close people hear me yeah I can do Leary's creo let's try to find it before you to colic do you hear me a career fish in here you hear me are you can hear I can hear you but Jeff canopy you you cannot hit jest ok what's with jit feel like it seems like so like it seems like some care wise connections like communications work about some care wash communication stones and I had even make it a chat app that like fails in that way I can't take severe app that's a good love infamous to be fair discord often has the same problem sometimes you get what you pay for I believe had google hangouts to be really quite reliable yeah but Google Hangouts with and i figured allows up to 50 participants yeah exactly so yeah we're so look into webex and i'll look into some paid ones and i'm taking lead on that after the call so Chris what kind of dependency where you're looking we're looking for now this so we need a an implementation of the octa pre-comp oh they offer you the parent function yeah we we can we can probably right up and go I don't think it should be that much of a problem hmm I mean it's not so the pro side is it's not sensitive of implementation that we don't need to keep track of and leaking side channel data so it's fine okay we'll find a way I'm sure okay so it sounds like we have go and C++ and Python clients so Anton Roman or architect could you comment for your teams now then also local primary feel very good yeah about big gash and all the obstructions former photo babies just added to look at instead big early so I the chance that you going to be those but we are okay with while with unity if people want to make an implementation and you can always feel free to just copy the one I made in Python because it was designed to be kind of both like as the readable as possible even at the at the expense of speed but it is open so because you actually in suggestions to take five them as the reference implementation I mean I i I'm hold on so Java the I mean first of all why do I would recommend the stuff one trying to see if there's any pairing implementations written already in Java and if there aren't then I guess cause copying Python and if if it passes all the like all the tests and it's probably worth giving it a review is probing second best yeah really about you need to divert blue okay then yeah so also I sorry I totally forgot i see janzen here Jan what do you think of this my guess because you work on the Python and Ruby oh yeah I think there should be no problem with Ruby and Python because we can use SSI rapper to wrap the sea library yeah this would be okay great and then I'm anyone from parody arcady or gaps joined or anyone at this point you know can you hear me I'm already mentioned the liver eases russ trade and it worked for a perfect ok cadet did everyone just t arcady just want to get a good check ok cool everyone seems good on that so we can just check that off and say that that that's below 0 or because the arbiter was on board get up in severe me perfect so yeah we can we can check that one off so the next thing and this one is going to take a little bit the agenda that i posted if everyone could go there during this conversation there are about five links for the cips that metallic is going to be discussing he's going to be talking about metropolis but real quick before we do that what is because I know Martin will posted this a difficulty bomb is about three months away is that still the case well it did it's not so much a bomb it's an ice age right so like the it never explodes it just kind of becomes the word on the blocks plan becomes worse and worse and the security becomes worse and worse over time so what three months is the words are to become noticeable I think actually hold on let me just get my script out again and I'll just read it out again yeah but basically this conversation topic is about the impending ice age sometimes called the million on that yeah ice age and then also metropolis going forward okay so from what i have in exactly three months from now so around march twenty fifth the Blue Ox time is going to go up to fifteen point two seconds so that's about six percent up then six months from now so like around july 25th the blogs time will be up to a 29-point seven seconds so like between three to six months is where it starts to kind of substantially manifests itself okay cool so interesting so I guess does anyone have any questions or concerns about that we're going to have a number of core dev meetings in between that time and it sounds like we're coming along with some of the metropolis planning so if there's no other concerns about that specifically of the taliking go ahead with the Metro VIPs you were going to discuss sure I mean from these five I think I'm pretty sure we discussed the almost all of them already so like EIT 86 of the abstraction changes so I recall less discussing that several times in previous meetings basically allows a new transaction type that's kind of more basically it has a sender of 0 and then it also has a two extra transaction it has two extra features which basically modify the scheme that's used to determine the determinant address of a contract basically the moving from center annonce to sender encode and like this we we talked about all this and I recall from last time that people in general we found that the wood found the idea acceptable there were a couple of versions of this but as I recall we get into one version but basically there's one of the issues that you start getting is like what if you try to what if there is an existing contract that calls create in such a way that it tries to like create many a contract with the same code many times and you don't want to break existing stuff unless you absolutely have to so the debate was between having a very complicated scheme that check for that it automatically tries to jump to a different address versus is just having like a new create off code like I call to create pqs age but well you can called create whatever and I recall the opinion being more toward creating a new off code because that's just like cleaner then so that's then after that there's the EIT 96 which is basically trying to kind of on the also on the abstraction roadmap trying to take vacations and state routes and move them kind of into the formal state rather than being something that requires some of extra infrastructure to try to destroy to access from inside the vm then there's also i recall us previously talking about me I piece for elliptic curve addition multiplication but look that's that's now kind of being rolled into the pairing discussion so not worried about that then EIT 101 so this is a big into rhythmic and I guess which shows hold on instead of a knob code can we to not we have a yup recompile for creation um that's worse than a guest worth considering although matches well with how Walton will operate okay I mean I'm happy to take that discussion offline but it's so I think at some point we basically I think the question there is whether or not what once the question is do we have more opcodes and verses do we have freedom piles that have a new kind of look this would basically be our first impure freakin pile no I can't hear Christian yeah i was about to what was impure that's the equation is saying oh I think he was just clarifying as the definition of a the term so he'll probably just put that in chat in a second okay cool is this on one of the VIPs um yes so the block captions come on Zig um yeah I p here right exactly such a that's what I was getting at that basically if you have a create free compile without without having a create opcodes then you have a pre-compiled I cannot even see erratically be implemented in vm code in this is a sort of fundamentally new kind of complexity so that was the kind of best argument to get extra in favor of just making it an opcode for the time being but what's the the IP number I don't see it Oh Chad anywhere this is 86 yeah so on the I just posted github / etherium flash p.m. issues 3 that has a list of all five that the talax talking about from what I've been able to keep up with so it's not on the order on the page but it's they're all in there the links okay and it sounds like Alex just clarified yeah I got it I just hadn't read that part of the conversation no I'm great so yeah was that all the eyepiece metallic I didn't know I was closing hold on so just to just think he's going through all of them Foley so with the IP 101 big integer arithmetic so the reason why oh well just finish answering a Christian oh cool what about 80 90 80 news check over this ah yes very good point EFE 98 all yeah EP 998 going to screw over the Lifeline bow Jeff was that you talking yeah they're with me okay great you did not hear oh no I heard you I was just making sure when I tell the talak metallic can you hear Jeff I mean I Jeff can you say something yeah I don't think you can hear me cuz I just maybe not oh okay we see ya I don't know if lightly worth me just drawing it a google hangout link because everyone's on google for their projects do you think that's worth it anybody feel like it'd be like a couple minute delay but yeah as you do if you do make sure you think is from the next account because I yes count 25 but regular female council 20 you said from an ex account wait which kind of google it is in this area total weekend ah got it okay so yeah let me I'll start that up while we're still having this discussion over talk and chat and then when there's kind of a stopping point with metallics comments i'll just send out the link and get everyone switched over so yeah Vitalik i think yeah you just got all that subdivision but Alex talking and chat it looks like the eip yeah they're going to go 1890 well yet p98 is like controversial for and/or we so i could not not fully settled at the moment but will discuss wall discusses the offline with on which other one year so of the other thing you wanted to finish off on is that Ed 26 okay almost got the Hangout up and let's hope that so a video call great and here we are all right I'm putting it in the Gypsy link I'm also putting it in skype and getter what are we supposed to Drew everyone switched to google hangouts I just put the link in and we have confirmation tentatively that it supports up to 25 people and we have less than that [Music] [Music] I know people online hear me he yes I can hear you know it's not okay this is much better I kind of know it yeah and next used to work for Google oh sorry I was we were talking on hanging out up yep I should get off Jett see [Music] so testing can you yes after you can hear you okay great awesome okay it looks like Nick's on we have a lot of people so we have mislabeled Casey's joining um we oh wait a couple of minutes oh yeah it won't take that long yeah absolutely lethal here yep let's see come office did you get in here hello yep I can hear it I can hear you Jeff awesome post you okay let me just make sure arca de can you hear ya confirmed perfect and then we have Alex bears Ozzy yo Ichi Alex I understand Casey Christian Jan ok this is representative of every major client so it out if you want to continue so basically what we just did for those who didn't go over to the IPS for metropolis yeah so how about I'll just kind of recap a few things because it looks like there are lots of bilateral communication problem sure so I'll throw this into the chat and the other thing is hold on rueda ok it doesn't seem to work well but basically there's five eip is that people seem to be looking at 86 96 98 100 101 140 so 86 is general abstraction and base which has two components to it one of which basically says if you send the transaction from that whose signature is 0 then it's assumed to be sent from a zero address the second and there will also be like client-side minor logic that says what in what was that if that would like provide some extra conditions for accepting transactions like that but that's not something we need to have consensus on so that's like not really any IP then the second part of ipv6 is this rule change for how to generate addresses for contract and 96 we're sorry into seems like the pattern there are a few pass with a few different trade-offs and it seems like the one people are most happy with its adding in this say a kind of new creed ah go to follow the new rules and then bring out how to deprecate you with one safely and then the VIP 98 basically removers intermediate state routes which has a pro it does have a couple of cons and we decided through that like myself and Jeff anywhere else and interested will take it offline and discuss at some point to figure out it's actually worth it then EIT e101 just to skip ahead a bit is basically big in conversation and now I'm I personally and I originally proposed the same the original rationale basically was that there's at least a few people that need to use our essay and we might as well make a generic and like support various kinds of big interface crypto my current position is that if we're doing this I think modular exponentiation itself should be enough so basically don't bother with multiplication and don't bother with addition my reasoning basically being that addition is probably quick and like over those three exponentiation is the only one where you actually really might need the optimization there's addition you can just do fairly easily any vm multiplication you can do in EDM it's quadratic but like it's still not too bad or if you want you can basically do look you can convert a multiplication into two modular squaring then use the exponentiation freakin pile for that so there's like two fairly accessible paths for it so basically the question is like whether or not to add this I'm so the mean users would be you I mean what Oracle ice is one example and there's a few others like general there's just a lot of least some cases where people want to exert I existing like cryptography that comes from outside if you're a man die cryptography happens to be either RSA or something big something big integer based then 100 so this was in response to a young loner ability to score a bug report made by Sergio erener working pointed out an incentive for that basically incur encourages mine large mining folsom I uncles and the solution is that instead of targeting a fiction blocks time we would soar get a fix or instead of targeting a fixed time between block number increments we would target a fixed time between blocks including uncle's is there's like a flight formula change it's like one line of code that will give us that then EIT 140 and I threw it in because I feel like we haven't discussed it enough but it's interesting which is a Nikolai's idea of basically a throw-up code that doesn't set that that doesn't just burn all of the gas that's a given given to your self goal so look that's basically it you know if also I guess at the same time I know there's a bunch of stuff that we've discussed over the last like six months of these calls so maybe there's stuff I missed us for bringing up again for the reversion the 140 seems to be particularly dangerous we're reverting state comes at Oak Park it does come at some cost because like it doesn't give you a hundred percent of the gas back like it's like the ideas that you would still lose the gas that you spent but you would but you would get back the guests that you haven't spent yet because when Kurt Italy didn't we already don't you already have the situation that we have to implement it as no cost because and you cannot throw after you run out of gas so it has to be exact one Prince George fertile the one thing I'm so that might be dangerous with this is that currently we can do some kind of sloppy GAAP accounting when we hit the out of gas and I mean something this is not really enough gas so it's in them right some specific opcode so it might not be too too difficulty to that and so I admit I didn't reach the health record that proposal does it include some kind of error code you can also supply requested quite often I'm not sure if that proposal has and you know might make sense the let's see it says details extra things to consider it would be useful to pass back a return value to be interpreted as an error this is a nice to have yes so there's a so there is a kind of proposed extension to it that would make throw have one arguments that would be like the value that gets that gets pushed back onto the stack I'll just paste the link here I'm yeah I'm after several others I'm my yes you can unfurl I'm supportive but although like although yeah I would add that if we end up running into a time crunch then and this it probably is one of one of the ones that that i'd be willing to sacrifice pushing off the lodge itself serenity but like I guess we'll see I have a quick question to be clear you'd talked before I'd seen some discussion about having i think it was either serenity or metropolis in phases especially the famous a bigger picked features is that for only serenity or in Metropolis as well um I think um hmm let me think I remember talking about serenity in phases I mean I remember metropolis being I know so the time when I broke that I was proposing breaking up metropolis into part 1 and part 2 was when we thought that we would do a dow 40 and like if we're going to do or sorry when we were debate is first discussing the idea of method l4k yes for to fix the GOS issues and I brought up the idea of well hey if we're going to hard for it we might as well walk off a few other items and we decided not to do too much of that but like even still actually we did implement a couple of League VIP is that are we happy so what that was intended to be kind of Metropolis so step one if it would be but like at this point it seems like one step is probably right sounds great there's discussing the list of off chance you want to include for metropolis or is this just a yeah this is dead if it's characters considered at all you know this is discussing the possibility of making like miserable is part one in Metropolis forward to know mean definiteness of the IPC you gave is that your proposal folks who don't that into metropolis or will know that was you know some of them are mine but like some of them aren't so like 140 is from Nikolai but look a lot of like most of them are things that we had already discussed and that I recall us kind of tentatively already agreeing or okay for metropolis so yeah they are all about metropolis Christian they're all essentially to be included in Metropolis pending further discussion shows one might question more aims that is all we also discussing that what does is also imply that others are not included or not so with Arthur any look what other aips are there that have been discussed that we're knocking is that we're not good serving for metropolis yeah I would like to at least have the 58 from metropolis okay I'm 58 that's the return gas thing right yes okay yes I think we were all supportive of that crap we should I can you tell you everything is broke up to me I mean it we said that the return gas is probably also caught a couple days but in general ya doin besides what is included metropolis and the time frame especially so shouldn't we rather than discuss that things to be said that we should start implementing stuff and then if something turns out to be extremely hard to implement and potentially customers or and things that are easy to implement to include or I don't know I think that's a good idea Christian of is there a way to maybe do point values or something relative to say the difficulty of each AIP that metallics listed out and then the 58 that you just mentioned is that something that should be done on this call or would be very quick to say you know for each client you know how faster to be for you to do this to kind of get an idea I mean first of all I guess so the first thing you said do we have like I'll just a list of all of these ideas that were considering in one place is that somewhere in the repo or dog source red Hudson I've never seen that document I saw those that don't think about document exists well that sounds like a document which I see what you're saying yes we can definitely do that in the PM repository we have a folder called metropolis now and we can also set up an issue so post call I'll set that up cool I mean it doesn't need to be something like a really formal one fancy advice for justin coj like a tissue yeah network I mean theoretically even like it either bad age would also be fine if we can find a version of either bad that stays up yep exactly so it ever maybe even a combination so yeah a Christian to answer your question since we're going to start having these every two weeks that should be something especially for the next agenda to say you know everyone you know between now and the next meeting see if any of these are going to be too difficult to get done and you know X amount of time so actually speaking of time just because this is something we can probably you know decide pretty much today what would be the approximate time for metropolis now that we know that the Ice Age is coming well as last time we I would rather not rush it actually I'd like men so I would like to have ample time for testing good call so I guess it's more dependent on or I guess what I'm trying to say is we can you know figure this out or the minimum stuff the next core dev meaning if it's in three months or if it's in six months because I think you gave that time frame right metallic yeah so I think a good strategy for this obviously I want everyone else's opinion is to kind of come up with a Minimum Viable metropolis I guess before or during the next all core dev meeting based on a lot of feedback between now and then for e IPS and then using that we can say you know for testing time and for just general implementation how long things will take and then I think it'll just kind of organically come out of that what will be in Metropolis so yeah would that satisfy your kind of feelings about the testing time Jeff sorry could you repeat your broke up Oh probably think it's my answer because my internet connection I'll just blame you either way so i was saying is i think that if we come up between now and then with like a page that just says eip you know time to implement time to test estimate and then give ourselves a ton of time on that we can safely create a list of VIPs we definitely want to get to before metropolis and then sometimes like maybe one or two stretch goals as far as early IP so yeah yes okay so yeah well we'll i'll do that post call just kind of start that document sometime today so yeah did you have any other aips or places to go with the discussion metallic um in those roles that I had but then I mean I also wanted to bring up static call but that seems like that's number five on the agenda anyway great anyone else have metropolis topics before we move on to static call it's great then we can move on this up to anyone there's another item before said it cold winter Oh yep you're right sorry I skipped one Martin if he could bring up the general state test I believe that was one that the Matri wrote a Dimitri the area in the call colloquium you yes I can perfect and you can hear us oh yeah this fine family yes definitely this thing looks well my own yeah so the CIP is one that a Dimitri wrote and i'm martin if you want to start because you're listed as facilitator i have a problem with me what connection with him so you suggest me to start discussing general pickles a fortune I think Martin hulse one day was going to start because he had it I don't know what direction he was going to start the conversation with the yeah but both of you could speak on it but a Martin are you here oh he might be dealing with something right now so yeah go ahead to make sure you if you could just I have the link in here it's eip 16 or a IP 176 so take it away oh don't like a robot to me oh sorry yeah if you could just start talking about 176 I could Martin's not on right the second okay so you could hear me well sighs I can hear you fine Martin did you get back on yeah Martin we can hear you sorry the point for that as a client developer should start implementing the general state does proposal that i mentioned to me yes because because I give a lot of testing this Oh previous tests are converted into a new general status has basically equipment and then recently other more new test or a tradition for also rhenium to see how other lines are doing you with what the results okay so you were saying you wanted feedback from other clients about how they're doing the test might be birthing tub yeah that might be an offline thing but yeah that's that's a good that's a good strategy and it looks like yeah it's a pretty it's an active eip thread so if we could just recommend everybody to go to that eip thread and make comments on it I think that might move it along a little bit and it looks like Martin still having connection problems Martin can you hear us now you feel so like a hole looks better the hero huh yeah CEO Jeff can we not here i can work good yeah yeah i know i was i was just pumping too good Martin signal ah got it okay in that case uh yeah what we can just have that on pause until Martin gets back but Dimitri I think I think basically you're saying take conversation offline for that eip Dimitri can you hear me yes does the lips without your question maybe you could type it up guys I'm going to perform you so I can hear you just fine just interesting yeah there we go yeah I can hear you alright I guess I'd device one so powerful oh yeah we can just chat we can text chat then demetri martin center on now yep I can ever so the reason I wanted to bring this up with but I wanted some clear go or no go from the giant developers if they're okay to move on with the generalization and if they have an objection is raised them otherwise just very cool and we can know that it's um yeah I'm so I was looking at a deer today and I had a few suggestions that I think we should be discussing over I don't want to discuss them out cuz it's taking up too much time I think we should move on to two other things can definitely be done offline on all cour des channel it's just mainly adding some extra fields that might be helpful and that's all so we can discuss that outline I definitely think it's a good idea and I think we should be moving forward with it but I said I have some connection right all right okay yep will do this offline and the next I'll core dev meeting we will collect all sentiment by then the eip will probably be done anyway and we can just finalized it next I'll core dev meeting yeah we can move on from there to static also Christian go ahead [Music] Yeah right so this would be proposal about yeah kind of adding new call up clothes again which restrict the the virtual machine that inside that call in also call to modify the state and in addition there might also be an extension that even restricts the Kali to read from the stage which would make the it a yeah a pure function I mean in general I think there's a lot of benefits of making call a bit more parametric to restrict what colonies can do but we have to find a solution so that we don't need any opcode for every single thing so perhaps you could also combine delegate call and all these these combinations there I know a gas had a an EIP somewhere for a new off court called interrupt where the idea would be that the basic OD likes a new kind of one co op codes to rule them all and it would just have as one of its arguments to be a bit field that represents the various flags and the problem with with that reflects being argument is that it's hard to do static analysis on that you think was a better to to move that into an immediate argument or some connector if we if you go to multiply top coat anyway then so have you solution that's some a good point so I will point out that like static call is implementable was like easy to medium difficulty but if we start going in that direction then the complexity starts racking up so there's the usual kind of expediency purity trade-off and Static mouse is generally difficult anyways how does one approach make static analysis easier than the other because with different op codes or with an immediate arguments you statically know what kind of call it's going to be until you can more easily do things like statically verify that particular functions are pure so so that that's in line that that's not for debugging and development that's that's for the affinity for the sort of out for the validator to be able to optimize validation me and validation is eligible kind of purification checking debugging like all those things so 11 days case would be these these entry contracts so these these effects accounts and if use a static hall there then the minor doesn't have to look what is called the minor can scan need to know that the fakirs didn't change yeah yeah yeah so the so the complexity is if we don't know what it is and we may have to have some type of refund mechanism for the first balance cough cough but if we know what it is done just awesome so am I going down the right path there well in any case it's a nice eip so it sounds like either solution could be discussed in the comments mm-hmm denunciar we in the comments also just offline over the next one or two weeks okay so it looks like that's going to be brought to 116 and there's more discussion to be had on that and then by the next I'll core dev meeting will have that as a top agenda item along with metropolis to tonight on does that sound good Christian yeah great okay so a lot of everyone included in that eip to look at the next one is a Christian with eip 141 the ebm opcode for invalid instructions and I felt like we talked about this earlier in the call but it might be it might have been something different so this this is this is not not actually a consensus change but more like a agreement solidity would like to change its behavior for reversion so the the thing is we want to distinguish explicit throw from things like arithmetic overflow or array out of bounds access and for one of them we want to keep the jump to invalid jump test and for the other we want to use an invalid opcode and the question is just is it safe to assume that we don't break any compatibility by assuming that this of course 0 xes will always be invalid in the serpent uses your luck Chevy but like I own final keeping both of those are inaccessible or like always invalid what's the benefit of the proposal Christian well basically the put it's like in agreement not to have future hard force that make some person one particular or currently invalid all code do something I'm Christine understanding that like programs can safely use that off code going but it's basically a kind of throw okay I get it down so I mean I can also just use f e do Alex I think you initially created death yep it's a direct what was the reason to choose EF oh he just says plus 1 and chat let me see if he can talk alright else just gave a shout out to the etherium foundation in chat or he was talking about he might have to be logged into that account to talk I don't think them's the case 0 0 0 e f is equal to the theory and foundation oh nice nice ok CN sounds like your election FPS the etherion foundation in French so take that oh I mean if you already is that the then I'll see you like we have two way to any of code waiting for reddit to yell about centralization again if we do that but I'm yeah that's worth it okay so yeah it sounds like we will continue that discussion on the eip and there's a few key people who have some thoughts on that so any other comments on that from anybody but I would like to use this from from now on because it's not a consensus change so is everyone fine with keeping Fe unimplemented or invalid your problems Oh keeping or keeping invalid Alex I think is asking they're keeping invalid because it's invalid now more food say that we should use to favor certain yeah I think vitalik mentioned that's how it's already implemented in serpent right but Alec yeah yeah yeah ok good it looks like we have consensus on that that's yeah and that's not even any idea is it let me see it's the night ii i TI t he has the improvements available [Music] sounds good sound good so sorry i just so just a quick question what what about this petaq hall we are going to the sun road later or are we going to decide later how we're going to do future columns present clear image not clear me either because if so I mean you know we could quickly discover the implementation detail so static all my don't think we need to learn if it's necessarily to and that our meeting to just discuss this topic we can have your calling conventions and stuff like that on another call what I think it is important to discuss that a call okay mm-hmm Christian if you don't mind taking that back over again and just outlining it kind of like Jeff saying or Jeff if you want to take it either one I mean no I mean I'm happy with this better call the big in 10 head out got it but but do you want to do you prefer to be a new opcode or or not you know just a person apart from that having I mean shouldn't we be discussing what do we want to have it for the Colorado okay what's he running the net like I said I'm completely fine with heading and having a stat I call but I don't know about anyone else oh yeah I just want to get away from others so it sounds like big relics good Christians good Jeff's good can we hear from Java her breath yeah maybe i'm setting all this is a basic question and also what about a pure call which is a yeah pure function that cannot read state apart from the code yes we are there forever oh hey Roman welcome again I'm he rolled upon boarding pure regarding pure call one challenge is that in my opinion pure call implemented that way would still be not quite pure because the contracts can contract code is technically mutable because contracts can start existing and they could get suicided the thing that the thing that I would prefer is I have an opcode that i already use and some of them in my task for VOCs which is called call black box which just like directly takes a piece of code and a piece of data as an argument and so basically to bite slices but I stick there might be an EIP for for it somewhere in it yeah I remember am yeah yes until you're right i mean code is part of the state so it so if you can read that yeah forget about it i mean the thing is that pure math sliced nicely into what we're doing with solidity currently you're planning ya know so i think i mean what we what we could do is look I don't think that having it the address based necessarily has many benefits because like if you haven't take to memory slices you can always just grab the code if you really want to grab it by yeah colca by get exp codecop seeing it so it's just right I really okay here so you do a you do read from store you do read from the state to grab the code and then you execute in the pure weight right okay okay it sounds like yeah I think most people want static calls at that I hittin that right mm-hmm I mean most people wants both static call in some kind of pure call or black box call or something in that category cool see up anyone opposed no I liked a black box idea two slices containing the code in bit and we added an edge and in addition to that I think having a set a call where you can read but that's not entirely right to stay would be helpful yeah okay so let's get some formal eip is on that and again i'm going to send everybody really soon what the new AIP template is it's very similar to the old one though so as long as you all just kind of follow that it'll be good enough okay think there are dias are some aips on that but just yeah kind of digging them up and telling them for the like may be in the meeting notes or something so that I can reference this might be great so we since we have a bunch of yet is this like a new eid format still it's not using issues in the same way anymore is it like there's like yes so and yeah that's the last topic but I can just run through it really quick how how the new eip processes it's actually not new it's actually just enforcing kind of how it currently is with a few updates the templates similar it's going to the template for the eip is similar it's going to have a section for like plain text like when I say plain tex I mean like human readable what the CIP is about so someone just like with not as much technical or specific athyrium technical knowledge can know what the impact of it is or the proposed impact additionally just a few more clarifications in there to avoid issues like we had in the last hard fork with different implementations implementing at different ways and then also moving it to PRS helps with tracking the changes so for instance there's been a few II IPS where changes were discussed in different channels like skype and then not updated on the main eip so then there was some miscommunication there so it's pretty much just to get clarity of communication and to help streamline the process so the process is when you have an idea put it in an issue and you can discuss it in the issue talk about whatever you want it can be as simple as one line it can be as complex as a whole template like PR style template and then when you want to actually move your VIP into like a draft status make a PR for it now github allows you to make PRS within the repo so you don't even have to I don't even think you have to clone the whole repo anymore but a lot of people will be more comfortable doing that and then there's just a it's pretty much just kind of how it was before I think we took out a few of the we took out a few of the labels so instead of like approved and accepted there's just accepted now I'm going to post the link to all of the change discussion and at the very top there is all of the there is all of the details of the changes okay yeah Nick just corrected me you do have to clone but you can do everything to the web interface and then finally let's see there's one more thing oh yeah we changed it to four subtypes so we've been having a lot of ercs come through like the token standard so and the ens standards so we're going to have those version now so whenever there's any IP a subcategory of that can be an erc and you would have liked token standard version 1 and then once consensus has been met you can go ahead and just kind of approve that as you know an approved eip / erc and then when you want to update that you would make a version two there's also yeah that's your this tracks now work or networking interface in ercs so yeah if you just go to that link i sent oh the things that are going to be most interesting or the future goals which is having a signaling system using block chain and github so that you can go in and a smart contract will automatically fill in current eip s and you can submit votes that are just you know plain weighted not weighted by coins or anything about how you feel about them like approve or disapprove and we might even have groups set up and things like that and then something that like a node green that will check for compliance uh VIPs so I just posted a link to it so something that looks like that but for any eip we discuss cross client compatibility yep just kind of a mouthful of stuff up again go to that link and that will give you all the information you need yeah we just got thru static call we're going through eip 141 or actually we just did that was that a finished up Christian or should we go back to that little sins picked perfect and then the last the second to last one difficulty bomb and we already discussed that so yeah and then yep I just went over the new the IP process so if anyone has comments on the eip process it's not final a core group of people who have been active and wanting to change it and you know help out what the changes have been discussing it but anyone can jump in additionally the list of editors it currently stands is let me pull them up because this is also kind of an important thing right now the editors are myself Martin Martin BZ Vitalik Geoff Gavin Fabien and kc d trio so I've talked to most of you guys but Roman do you feel fine being an editor on the eip s still you were set as one initially but I'm just kind of checking with all the editors perfect okay so we'll start getting some communication for that with the kind of the responsibilities Jeff said he's fine vitalik you're cool staying that and then I'll talk to Fabien because I don't think he's on the call and I'll talk to Jeff and then Casey's good okay so yeah that's all for the e IPS expect that in the next two weeks at the latest hopefully it'll happen this week well thanks for thanks for coordinating Hudson I appreciate it and I also appreciate the works being done and the deep streamlining streamlining process very nice we need it up thanks Jeff and yeah actually the Casey and Nick and Greg and a bunch of other people have been helping out so yeah we've been having hours of skype combos so they should be thanked as well good job guys alright so yank you that's all of the oh yeah so Casey asked was there a clear statement on point 74 the difficulty bomb i think if i remember correctly it was three to six months depending on certain factors italic yes okay wonderful in that case is there anything else anyone wants to talk about we're just under an hour and a half which is perfect and i think everything's checked off the list well let's go statuses form Jeff serve italic see you know where where are we I don't going to go to a big gorgeous yeah all I don't think is really necessary to talk about that now there is a swarm room on guitar I'm feel free to ask those questions over there I to be honest i dunno's dig back photos i know its operating on the on the touchpad and if semi-functional but yeah go ahead and jump into the swarm get a room it's public yes it's working for me and have some good it has a little bit of hiccups but it's working pretty well right now from what I can tell yeah I have a question so if you guys can hear me can you I can hear you yeah my question is do we plan to kind of move forward organically with this or is someone going to propose an actual plan for the coming six counts if it's going to be one or four core two forks and what's going to be coded I think it sounds like the very near term plan is like after this call for developers to a kind start implementing these at least the EITS that we have a very clear consensus on and to continue kind of discussion discussing amongst each other to continue to like like a research too for implementing pairings and hopefully we'll keep coordinating in within the next two one or two weeks or so we'll have a much better idea of kind of what the priority list is yeah so I just made an issue and the project management repository so i'll fill in kind of the info at the top of their the main goals of that is going to be deciding definitely what is required for the next hard fork rough timeline to then finalize timelines hopefully by next all core dev meeting or as soon as possible and come up with time estimates for the how long a IPS can take to implement and how long they would take to test on a per client basis so I can round up everybody for that that's not going to be too bad because we're all in the same get er channel so yup just posted a link to that to everybody and so you get Martin to that answer your question all right yeah perfect so would it be fair to say to the plan is for all for them to see what they can demand what is fingering so that by the time is difficulty bone loss and we can we can link to the forum place but we have I mean perfect start to see what you can implement then I would even say as soon as possible once we get once we get kind of informal consensus than just start going ahead and implementing as I think like given that we do have that so we do have a deadline I think trying to kind of pipeline things and just getting to work on the first half but even what even while getting to in consensus on the second half would be quite sensible so pls more like at a reverse deadline right we have the at some point is you the bone cage here and we want to see how much you can do until then oh yeah yeah and I mean obviously what what our goal is to give us a lot of padding a lot of time for testing and for potential issues implementing especially across the clients with the most i guess client or node share so we'll be working closely on that and so yeah what metallic and said we're going to get to this as soon as possible Oh what was that Jess no sorry I said something to my to my girlfriend and I was unaware that I was in Munich sorry hi Jess girlfriend she came through wow that's good how food oh thank you alright so anything else anybody I just want to say that that this was a really really lovely meeting and I'm looking forward to more regular meetings and more structured process yes me too I think this one was definitely helpful to get everyone on the same hea ya then optimism yep so what we have is if that's pretty much the meeting just to remind everybody we have where is it the first and third fridays of every month at 1400 UTC i'll be sending out emails to everybody about that if i don't have your email i'll just reach out to young getter and get it i think i have almost everybody's though and if I'm missing a client that is significantly built I guess or people that should be added to hear just ping me and I'll get them included in this and by the next time we'll have a myriad of options for the calls i'll try to test some between now and then as well I know a few people had volunteered to help me test jet see so we might have like a gypsy server like locally with a lot more power instead of using the public one yeah but also look into this court please I think if someone had mentioned that it has the same issues as gypsy as far as disconnects yeah I mean we they used to but I think it's been improved and it was a Knicks at seven okay it's not open source I don't know but really matter uh it's more important to some people than others we can definitely check oh you know what before we go who cares if this is this audio is presented to the public is that something that anyone has a problem with I'm not doing it yet but just I'm thinking about that as a way for people to more clearly go back and see what's going on no program cool Roman do you have a problem with that metallic oh cool yep so it sounds so if anyone does have a problem you can PM me privately and we can work through that but yeah otherwise i think i'm going to start to release these publicly because that will make it a lot easier so we don't have to take as many detailed notes for the community all right great i'm not going to keep you longer it's exactly an hour and a half since it started great call everybody and we'll see you on the first there's the first friday so that would be the third of februari alright alright i hope for you guys see next everybody site 