yeah hi folks i'm sridhar pia i am a research scientist with block science building crypto economic models and over there i'm primarily interested in mathematical modeling of economic systems in such a way that we can actually eventually simulate them but also find the sensitivities of the system and i am also helping build a haskell-based domain-specific language for financial instruments awesome um and um sunny oh we're doing a quick one-liner intro of us because this is our first research workshop but sunny has been an og in the flashboth discussions treasure map roast so um but this one is this workshop is specifically research focused if you can actually speak well looks like sunny may not necessarily be able to speak but um so saria do you want to do a quick intro yeah sure i'm sorry i'm uh engaged student right now with uh andrew miller um my current pre-search is largely in sort of uh uc stuff uh so just on the side of cryptography and security but in the past i've done blockchain research and uh in largely in payment channels and just sort of had my hand around in a few different security papers as well and uh yeah i'm also i'm also slightly new to the black ops ship so yeah that's me awesome um i think the number that's calling in is dave because his um connection wasn't good so dave want to do a one two line intro of your research direction and yourself sure um yes i'm about internet i'm working uh i'm currently interested in how we don't mitigate right i'm not sure if it's my internet connection or yours you seem to be breaking up but if anyone's breaking up feel free to text in the check check box um for um anything i think it was feedback with your mic tina so i think you might have to mute yourself while dave talks at least that was my understanding of what google is saying my apologies guys but it's surely my side of being weird right now uh going through a phone no now that sounds great okay i should do the intro again uh yes uh i'm interested in how to best mitigate mev if we can change the base layer consensus algorithm and uh as well i'm interested in you know working on recursive snarks that's what i do as research outside of med so cool awesome all right so um let's go uh so i have uh shared a bit of an agenda to guide our discussion so this is um flashback has been in existence for um our research discussion has been going on for essentially three four months and um we have started um um with our flashbacks research um proposal process frp process um and the submission is um will be due next sunday so um this call is our first research focused workshop that um will go into discussing the frps that has been submitted according to the flashbots research roadmap for most of you who have attended our roles in the past you will know that um this just go to flashbots mev research repo uh the readme section um and the docs linked hi dan um we'll have everything that you need to know about how to contribute and be part of the flashbacks research um in the frp process uh basically um the deadline will be next sunday and then the week after we will um basically announce our grants that we uh will uh uh reward our mpd fellows who are the grand recipients who have submitted the frps so yeah once again everything is in the link that i just also shared with you is in our github repo that said um i think we uh we just saw uh dan morales joining uh some of us here are already familiar with dan's work dan is taking a sabbatical from um harvard but um dan do you want to do a uh you know quick intro like one or two lines about your area of research oh sure um hey guys can you hear me yeah okay sure so um i'm a phd student at harvard with david parks and the group i'm in is called the econ cs group and typically they've studied mechanism design but at a larger scale than what's studied in econ so typically nikon the auctions you know that they come up with that that field originated in econ and so there's a continuation of that in the computer science literature and there's like whole conferences you know essentially based on this like um like ec and wine and so on um so i've kind of taken that approach and um thought about cryptocurrencies in that light so how kind of cryptocurrency and uh and the kind of game theoretic dynamics that occur you know like mining and like mining pools and like staking and so on and so i've written i've had some papers where we talk about um models of that and the kind of incentives of the different players and the equilibria that result and the issues you know that we see in all this so mev is definitely up this alley very excited to be here awesome so um i think just a couple of quick updates as we go down go through the agenda one is we have made a modification to the uh to the frp template minor modification that uh alejo has submitted a pr um and we have merged it so alejo can you make a share screen and kind of just go through what has changed in the frp process sure it's a very minor change actually um so before there was actually no separate um template so i just essentially split the template and modify it a little bit let me find my screen there we go can you see my screen oops can you see my screen now yeah yeah so this is the this is the research repo um so before uh in the this is the just introduction tina was mentioning before and then in the roadmap there was a section where they were um some guidelines on what makes a a successful um frp where you see it now it's in frp1 or frp uh sorry yeah it was inside the frps in the fr p0 sorry all that here there was a what belongs to a successful frp so it has small section with uh guidelines on how to build it i thought it was useful to actually put it this in a template and so i i built a quick template whoops okay uh my comp i i got the wrong links i have to fix that and so it's clearly a simple template that one can simply copy and fill in the different sections this will work as a this is a little table with information summary of the project and then background problem statement plan and deliverables and the references section again this is model i repeated after what was there so no major changes but i think it was useful to have like a separate file so people can simply copy that and build upon that yeah i will fix that link perfect um so um and so that uh so that's uh the the template that we um will reference um i think it fits most of the research questions here um the second brief update is um we have uh so basically uh we have uh um uh mikka who is also an editor for eip process uh raise a comment about uh our authorship um that we uh originally a bye bye authorship which requires submission of your credentials and etc um however um he i think he made a good point about um anonymous contributors being acceptable so i think uh we should broaden the the the guide uh that should broaden the the criteria to accept um anonymous contributors rather than having to essentially quote-unquote kyc um research contributors so that's just uh something that um i think a slight update that i think would be uh beneficial for everyone here to know but i think everyone who actually joined a call are happy to be not anonymous contributors here but anyways that said um we'll continue um and third um i guess more more or less administrative update is that we're finalizing our set of uh our frp editors frp editors will have the responsibility of actually be actively involved in reviewing reviewing um and discuss with the research fellows and uh to help make sure that the uh our frps can fit into the broader scope of the context and they're not contradicting each other too much on in terms of methodologies et cetera so i think the current frpp editors that we're proposing the set is um uh alejo um and georgios um who is not on this call at this moment and uh and phil um [Music] and uh alex and alex albaria and myself will be assisting everyone in the coordination process um so uh that said um let's move on to the research questions and the fr piece that has been proposed so if everyone here can go on the flashbox github or alejo you may share your skin in this screen and in the mre mev research repo um you will and if we actually go to the paper one and paper two the research questions what we have seen is that we have uh received two draft um frps one from syria and one from author they're not yet uh they're still in draft so they're not yet updated in the um in the flashbots repo um however as we are going through these drafts with each team perspectively we start to realize that we definitely um and this is actually also intentional we left the research questions very vague and potentially have overlapping um uh between the research questions so we need to actually fine-tune this uh uh you know a bit more um in terms of our research questions and so um basically all the research questions that we have put forth is in the mev research people read me and um perhaps um alejo you can discuss a bit about what you have observed in the current rfrp submitted and then we can go into the each of the frps yeah sure so we work with surya this week in party so frp1 was a bit of a blanket frp had many things in there so we worked in breaking that up in in smaller more manageable chunks i don't know i don't want to show that or we want me to that's still not in the repo so oh if you could just share share your own screen would be easier yes okay fine so this is still in surya's repo let me get that um just a sec although i will ha i will let a caveat that from my call with alejo on monday it's still in a very rough form so it hasn't been updated just yet so but you know yeah you can at least get the idea yeah i think more of yeah just look at the titles so we we essentially broke it down live in a call so we haven't i polished this after that so before the frp one just for a little context this was uh how can we build a good auction strategy right so this was uh uh it had like questions of measuring mvv and and questions of designing the orchard so and had many different things bundling that so this is the the old title the how can we build a good auction mechanism so we broke it up in small chunks i think this perhaps should be not sub frps but frps on on their own we can discuss that so first one is actually building a taxonomy of extraction strategies right so right now we have liquidations we have arbitrage and so on and so forth so uh one early step in the process is um just like um describing this taxonomy of of strategies more properly this will be very closely linked to what mav inspect does in in crawling the blockchain and finding these opportunities second is measuring pgas and other mav extraction strategies um again this is what uh mvp inspect does we have to define what exactly we want to to measure and and this will depend a little bit on what the taxonomy we define in this sub frp this was a big part of what was uh there in the in the frp1 so that's something we need to refine better what things we want to measure and go ahead and measure them um this third one was uh separating lay one versus layer two this is related to carl frost post in its research if any of you have seen that he was proposing perhaps doing the the uh reordering of transactions as a layer two thing so surya's going to talk with with carl about this so this is something we also want to look into um frp one four or four or whatever we end up numbering it is um all the meaning of good in the good auction mechanism so first there's a good applying to different actors so there's bidders miners and external users that are perhaps impacted by i don't know gas prices going down so this is one thing we want to define what goodies for each of the the actors in the system and try to come up with a sharper sharper um more measurable operational definition of goodies this like this we've discussed before this involves a notion of efficiency and it probably involves other things it's clearly less geared towards good in an ethical sense and that's more the focus of paper to where i want to make sure we're doing something good for the ecosystem this is more tied to how like a notion of like again efficiency optimality and so on of the um of the the auction mechanism you want to incorporate in the in the system so i and this is is to be defined how the different how what is good means in operational terms and how this integrates the the good that's good for differently good for each each of the actors of the of the system um next oops next one is uh finding solutions to the objective functions this except for p13 but because we renumber this should be every one four so and once we have like a notion of what's good okay what's the solution that optimizes that that good what's what's the actual auction mechanism that achieves this this notion of good right um so this is a a again a design mechanism design thing um for p16 uh sorry and this is very much related to frp quality one seven i think it was originally number six that was that one suryas was working on that it's about um surveying the literature the auction literature and see what actual uh auction mechanisms are already known what are their properties so what can we possibly use for for for this and finally for v16 is uh where is the our current poc proof of concept auction mechanism standing in terms of this this ideal or this is this this solution we we find for the this idea of good uh so where are we standing in terms of that we are now using a silvie first price function for the mavgs concept so how good is that how bad is that how it compares with uh more promising solutions eventually and we don't know what the status is so this is one thing we're gonna dig deeper into um yeah so that's the the and six sub frps that could potentially become frps we are working into trying to pass this big uh big very ample uh question into some like smaller more tractable chunks and again these are sort of up for grabs we still have not like assigned people to to this so that's also a good place where we can find people to contribute to any questions that i think like if we get some research fellows who who are essentially a team of people i think i think in that case a lot of those frps can become bind into a single one and you know a whole team i think is well equipped to handle them sort of in parallel yeah yeah thank you um thank you for um you know presenting essentially the uh breaking down of the research questions um and so uh into the summer definitely um uh like we'll come up with a better numbering system um but i just want to hear before we go to the next ifrp uh draft uh that author um and his team has put together um questions on on the way we set our sectioning um the research questions and dividing things up i think there are a lot of questions and we have uh us we have uh discussed individually one-on-ones with the researchers who have been joining the calls in the past um there's definitely questions on certain research questions deserve to be standalone um paper where they're only like um you know a page or two would not be able to do justice especially paper one question three and pay and also the other uh comment that we have brought a lot which is um the first paper really eighty percent of the meat of the paper is in the first research question uh which is uh that's why we're doing the breakdown of it and that's why we're having this research workshop to make sure that we are going to be able to um select research models who are interested in solving these questions collectively with us um in a meaningful way so that's why we're also adjusting our process um your audio is not the greatest latina but i think we heard most of it maybe in a tropical storm i think it sounds sounds like have you considered not being in a tropical storm i'm just kidding that all sounds good to me uh did you find that there would be any tools or organization that would be helpful to your first frp surya nalejo i guess while we wait for tina to resume the program i'm kind of curious about that so i think one thing i was interested in is um i think alejo brought this up in the in our call was so how does so how is the how's the the sort of mev opportunities that front run dot me can find and report how did they compare to mvv inspect and further for mev inspect sort of how can we think about how much about how much extractable enemy va that mev inspect reports in the sense that is it close to maybe a lower bound is it close to an upper bound like how many of the mev opportunities are being are being missed by an mvp inspect or how much what percent is being captured by it yeah so i think that's something we also said stefan and scott on the engineering side on a mission to try to quantify so maybe it would be worth also chatting with them and seeing if they have any metrics um dot me i can tell you real quick was just like very specifically only atomic dex trades that profited the arbitrager in eth only on like five or six different decks that are mentioned in the paper so that's like a very small subset i expect the real upper bound is way higher and it also doesn't consider like reorderings or anything it's just using like bot profit as a proxy for mev uh but really like the miners could probably make more if they were actively reordering and things like that which i think we might also want to capture in the dashboard um yeah so it's fair to say that that it's probably um somewhere near a lower bound on yeah it's definitely a lower bound but it's a pretty bad lower bound yeah um because the miners could profit at least that much for sure but it's pretty bad and uh yeah i think adding coverage is one of the main things we still need to do on that side um i also think that like it's worth thinking about in general like how do we encourage sustainable research artifacts and maybe that's like packaging things up in a way that can be um can can be contributed to engineering and kicked over later and establishing a process where they like actually do that um but i think that's one of the things we're really bad at as academics and like frontrunned me is an example where like if it takes like 100 hours to like update your thing to like the newest industry trends or whatever like you're probably not going to be incentivized to do that so yeah and then on the topic of coverage i wanted to also ask um is there is there kind of a running list a list of like what mavs strat extraction strategies are covered right now and i maybe inspect and sort of which ones uh you are trying to also cover or at least just some some sort of in numeration of like the other main strategies you guys have come up with of course yeah i think it's worth chatting with them about that because i think they have something internal but it's probably not rigorous so like part of what i think it's good for the research side to do is like if you find a question like this that like people are working on on the engineering side that's relevant just like guiding them towards giving you data that's like more rigorous and can be used for like you know a survey or like some sort of more uh public kind of formal release rather than just like internal notes uh because i feel like we have most of the data but there's just like some covered stuff that needs to happen that i'm sure you guys can help guide and also other people on this call can help guide you sorry i didn't want to derail your call tina i'll hit them up continue to continue the agenda please i need to hop off to another call but um it seems like the all of the frps except for rp11 have the dependency on that frp11 which is establishing the taxonomy and notations around um what we're building with with mvb extraction strategies so are we expecting this to be sequential given that this dependency or are we expecting that all of these related topics will have different notations or how is that going to work is there going to be an enterprise mechanism yeah that's a great question i think uh not necessary i think not necessarily as they don't mean necessarily sequential so one so for instance all the problem of what's good how to define good in terms of like in more operational terms and and good for each of the actors i think that can run in parallel to defining the taxonomy that's more like the good thing is more dependent on the on the availa so there's defining good and then the the survey of the auction mechanisms available and then finding the optimal those are sort of kind of related in a blob and then and then there's the one on the taxonomy and then measuring and those two are certainly related so yeah that's it's clearly some structure to those and some like uh dependencies we can we can uncover and yeah that's a good point we should make those explicit but but i i i do expect some things to be able to to be running parallel i would also say that i think at least uh trying to enumerate and classify mev i think um based on what based on what phil just said i think talking to the engineering team and sort of getting getting an access to their internal notes would go a long way in completing that frp just in terms of being able to then move forward without you know having it be a blocker yeah so so far so uh from the just from the code of mav inspect it's there is some sort of uh taxonomy they're like operational taxonomy and it's more like bottoms up therefore okay compound we know we have to look at compound and there's a compound inspector and there's okay ave we need to look at and a way so it's more of like a spontaneously building taxonomy so i think our our job would be to try to uh organize that and try to make sense out of that and see if we can like have something more hierarchical or to give some more more structure there and there was one comment i i uh talking with scott looking at the architecture i think their inference mechanism is sort of uh there's an inference of like okay this is an mvv extraction opportunity and i think that's certainly could be could be improved in particular i think there's locations in which uh it might be detecting things that are not that maybe extractions just by the way it works so i've detected like one very corner case like where supper uh supper liquidity provision so liquidity provision via zapper is classified as an mbv extraction event again because of how this infrared work so i think that's super tricky because if we want to make strong claims about this being a lower bound at some point we really have to look at that and be a bit more strict in how we we tag things as maybe extraction events and so on i think i can i agree with what phil was saying that there needs to be some interaction uh with the engineering team to define that yeah i think that starting point sorry for going no no problem and feel free i don't want to keep you too long if you have to get to your other call uh but yeah i think that's all that's all saying and i also think the engineering team has like expressed that they very much want guidance on that front and like you know systematizing that i think is a very useful research objective in general cool i have a quick question for um ffrp12 so this is basically this inspector so is the goal here to just be passive in the sense of detecting past mavs or would there be a goal of detecting the potential mavs that are out there right because these are two different things uh so for example if you want to detect all the arbitrage movies that are out there then you basically need to detect all the arbitrage opportunities among all the d5 platforms which is a very different problem from just observing what do other people do and we want to measure what other people do right yeah i think that's a good question so i can give you my high level vision of what it was and i by no means is this like necessarily what will happen but just the way i was thinking about it was that like at first we would kind of provide a portal to maximize transparency of what bots are doing just because that's like a concrete tangible thing that plays into all of our metrics of like how much mev is there and how much gas is being wasted um eventually i would also like to have almost like a contest style api where maybe you can submit like mev solutions for like a block or a range of blocks that's like better than the order that was actually executed and then we like archivally validate the legitimacy of those kind of contest entries and kind of also talk about maximum pass mev for various interesting sequences and single blocks um and eventually i think like the whole flashbots infrastructure of like if there's actual mev being extracted through this infrastructure should also like automatically feed into that where like if it's extracted it should feed into like okay this is the best known solution for this block but also potentially when you're testing strategies you can also submit to the public that like oh actually this would have been better for a pass block because also as we mentioned like we expect mev for even like a fixed block to be like somewhat super linear in time because like the longer you have to solve the problem probably the better instances you're gonna find uh so people probably will at some point if the game gets really crazy be like oh a year ago you really could have done this strategy and like it would have been way more profitable so i think that was the at least the vision but uh obviously there's a lot of work that needs to happen between there and now yeah it makes sense yeah the only reason being that starting from the point of like we want to get all the mev in the past is like very hard to do and this is like much lower hanging fruit and i think we can iteratively advance to like the ultimate mev kind of dashboard hopefully yeah so i think um actually uh shruti raised a really important point that i think has been a blocker from both the flashbacks engineering um flashbacks its backside uh in terms of uh uh what is it uh you know good taxonomy um you know um to in fact guide them uh in data collection and also this is something that i think came up in our conversation one-on-one conversation with um uh author's team uh when they are drafting their frp they have proposed an frp on quantify meb from uh impact on on the protocol security and that is a paper two question however um they picked a subset um which is liquidation that is currently not um being collected by the flashbots uh uh engineering team from md inspect uh for various reasons that uh have been shared in the product calls however it's worthwhile to bring it up here so author would you like to share um a bit on uh of your frp uh yeah of course um let me see should i share my screen that might make things easier i never use google um hang on one second sorry for that delay oh it seems i have to kid and reopen to give random permissions to the i'll be back in a second sounds good and um well author is rejoining one thing i want to point out is also that so we have also had this discussion with sunny and dave who's also on this call from protocol designer perspective and um that they um essentially uh the taxonomy of mbb and also like quantifying the empirical mbd extraction versus the theoretical limits that is something that potentially needs to be addressed but okay cool trying to share here specific window can you see yep yes dfrp or is it too big maybe zoom a little bit more can you see it yep all right it's very simple i'm struggling a bit with the is it not clear yep still a little small if you just zoom in maybe the google or the controller let me check why that's the case if not it's fine i think we can we can we can read it yeah let's find a mayan zoom in on my screen oh no i now i hear you again sorry about this can you hear me yeah i was just saying if you zoom in a little bit it would be a little better but it's okay if you can't oh of course um like this perfect yeah that's perfect awesome so that's a very coarse draft obviously but the idea is to study in the first step liquidations um we have looked a bit into the liquidation platform so that are they compound geodetics and probably mecca dao i think collectively they they represent roughly over 80 percent of the lending markets um so by by capturing them we would basically capture yeah about 80 of the landing markets um and because of the liquidation proceeds they contribute quite massively to minor extractable value um the liquidation mechanisms in rv compound and dual x are not auction based but they are like based on a fixed spread liquidation this means in rv once uh once the depth passes the health factor so it goes below below one of the health factor then any liquidator can come in and liquidate parts of the collateral now it depends a bit of how much they can liquidate i think on rv and compound the close factor which is the percentage the fraction of what they can liquidate is fifty percent on uh d x is even a hundred percent so this is quite um lender or borrower unfriendly i would say in liquidator friendly right if you can liquidate almost a hundred percent of the collateral although it might be sufficient to just liquidate five percent to to secure the debt um so yeah and we have seen recent price oracle manipulations well it's debatable whether these are benign or malicious manipulations but um there is i mean there's basically a fact that liquidators yield significant profits right um over over all these three platforms so ideally we want to systematize systematically measure what's what's the current state in default liquidations and and what's the current mechanism there are already some works that have looked at compound i think but i don't think they're as deep as we want them to be so there's i think that the space is quite yeah broad to be explored um and ultimately it would be interesting to know whether we can and or recommend for example to the landing platforms a liquidation mechanism that is anti-mev right if you can find like um if you couldn't find a liquidation mechanism that is maybe friendlier for the borrowers well it wouldn't necessarily be a bit unfriendlier for liquidators because in the end it's a zero-sum game but uh ideally we want to find some liquidation mechanisms that prevents mev right um in some way so there are a few questions we want to engage in like very simple engineering questions at the beginning what's the monthly estimated liquidation profit for the different platforms um how competitive are these liquidations right basically just analyzing the gas prices plotting a nice distribution of the of the different methods over the whole spectrum of the the whole time frame um what are the different liquidation mechanisms methods right um and how do they differ with respect to mvv and yeah as i said which liquidation mechanisms avoid anything if we quantify how sensitive current depths are to liquidation then we know how by how much an adversary would need to manipulate an or a price oracle in order to trigger liquidation in order to trigger a movie so if a miner is in a movie or a miner and he knows that there's i don't know 100 million um of collateral that is about to be liquidated if the price just drops by five percent well they might do just push it over the edge right and then they can anticipate that there will be something maybe um so um sensitivity of of of collateral to liquidation might be relevant so there are a few related works i'm sure we missed a few that's why this is just a very early draft and so we we discussed with the flashbots team before because we wanted to also quantify how mav impacts on blockchain security we think that we will we will separate this into a separate frp because it actually it actually matters to all sources of of mev um so the second frp would be how can we quantify um let's say let's say there's an me opportunity right that arrives uh there's an mevo a minor but this mev where miner somehow doesn't manage to mine this transaction and let's say some other miner or some other trader manages to mine this mev now um how big does this mev opportunity need to be for this mev where miner to start forking the chain so is it enough if the mav opportunity surpasses like 10 times the block reward does this already mean that the um that the miner will start like a rational miner will start forking the chain and basically doing selfish mining with the private chain that he doesn't publish and at some point when he's lucky enough he he he overrides the the public chain so this is this is the second frp that that we initially had in here but after consultations with the team all the time okay cool um so obviously there are three plots and figures that should come out of this and the systemization of different liquidation mechanisms ideally ideally actually uh what liquidation mechanisms are anti-mbv right some some concrete some concrete recommendations on that end yeah that all sounds super interesting i think those are all important questions i also wonder like are there any inherent trade-offs in like anti-mev liquidations um like how low do you need some mev to keep the system running efficiently and like how low and like what are the trade-offs when you approach that minimum point um i think would be interesting like i kind of think about it in a similar way as like amms where like amms really only work because of mev and like even though they're pretty inefficient people like the ux so much that like they're willing to expose some mev but they don't want it to be too much so like how do we think about the trade-offs of like reducing mev and like how does that change when it goes to the extreme of like approaching zero i think is interesting yeah we also don't want to give no money to the liquidators right otherwise they they wouldn't like secure the system if it needs to be secured so it's really it's quite a challenging uh game yeah yeah well um thanks for sharing author um i think uh it will be actually very interesting we're very interested to see how you split the two questions and how you develop this current frp and how you split the research question into two frps so yeah we'd love to follow up on the update here um i think uh once again one of the uh perhaps the next step with regard to the liquidations for the study on liquidations is to goes back to the taxonomy question it goes back to kind of how do we systematically quantify mdb um uh i think perhaps deserves a um you know a separate call with uh the flashbots um engineering team who is collecting a different data set that's not overlapping with your team's data collection because i believe that author um your team is planning to um separately collect the data on on this uh for this study correct this was yeah this was our initial idea i mean because we we have some experience with gaff with geth and uh we have full archive node and gaff and so on um so we do have like a base level of infrastructure that it would help but obviously if the more synergies we can create the better for everyone right so um that's to be seen cool well um alejo do you have any questions or suggestions on this matter on this particular frp and frp that will bring together no i i what i what we discussed the other day in the in i think it's great that you split this into two different uh things uh now i uh yeah i think the challenge here is how this interacts with the um with the taxonomy we will eventually build and the question that was asked before okay is this like dependent on the taxonomy we build is it like should we look at liquidations uh on their own or should we try to tackle like measuring the mav in across the taxonomy so this is like the main the main question to me if we if we tackle uh separately liquidations from other ways of extracting mev uh i think the challenge there is coordinating everything in a in a in a way that all the the deliverables are sort of uh aligned that we're measuring the same thing essentially right so i think that's him i mean so one approach is to have like separate teams measure each of these um opportunities separately and then do a coordination effort to try to make sure that we're all measuring the same thing in the same way um otherwise uh their approach would be to have perhaps a larger team cover um the the entire taxonomy and measure um the all the things there but again uh it's also dependent a little bit on the on the how when when and how we find that that taxonomy so yeah cool yeah i mean happy to to continue discussing right i mean this as you said right this could also be like a small section or like a small part of this frp one i believe that does measure everything right that would also be fine i mean whatever fits better the the group sounds great um i think one thing to clarify is that the uh frp process is meant to discover um what is within limit by defining the scope um we can come up with answerable questions that we will have owners for each of the answerable questions to uh so that we can through this collective research process we can arrive at the general deliverables but of course each of these business questions deserves a lot more time and energy put into it so a lot of them deserve to be a standalone paper perhaps uh once we actually gone through the collective research uh process uh and i'm sure phil has a lot more to say on this but i want to move on to um to uh the third question in paper one which is currently under address and we have received um questions and good good questions on what the third question should be which is on uh maybe on alternative architecture um so the question is not very well defined yet at this point so like i don't know whether um sunny and dave um you guys now have stable connections can share a bit of your thoughts in this regard um yeah i so i mean what i was thinking about this question is the i mean so i was also thinking that this seems a bit odd fit for like this paper because this paper is mostly about the architecture of this design but i feel like the way to go about like um showing what like even thinking about like what does this fit in other architectures is like to you know start with the null hypothesis that like this art this design like the the auction design and everything works in other architectures and then like disprove that by designing architecture like chain architectures that don't this this this uh this auction design doesn't work in and so you know i think the two i mean so you know dave and i are design like we mentioned dave and i were design are designing one chain architecture in like bft in a bft case that with like threshold decryption and stuff that like we think that this auction design doesn't work in um but then you know there's probably other ones that you can explore as well like you know avalanche team claims that like their leaderless consensus protocol also makes the auction design not work and so i feel like before you can even start to answer like like what it means like how you would design this system and others change i think like the first thing would be to just keep exploring as many uh trying to design as many architectures as you can in which this auction design doesn't work and so yeah that's kind of like what i'm thinking is like if you wanted to answer that question that's probably the way you'd go about doing it and this feels a little bit out of a little bit like different than the rest of the paper um for that reason because it's like it's more of a design problem more than a like evaluation problem almost it's also not that the uh auction mechanism doesn't work it's more so that uh dr magnusson is like sub-optimal and if you have a different base layer you can do more optimal things like eg you know if you do the auction you know with an sgx you get some security properties but stx's aren't optimal but given constraints of being on ethereum you can't really do that much better but now if we examine other systems eg i don't know tendermint style census where you have bft with a fixed threshold for liveness you can do you get new solution types if you do an avalanche maybe something new as well i don't actually understand avalanche well enough to have a coaching thing to stay there so i think the latter might be an interesting like give suppo suppose another arc a base layer type what can we do there or what's the optimal we can aim for there or what's other like security guarantees we can aim for i'm not sure how much 20 you're gonna get any nice level of abstraction across different base layer types that like uh like so at least in for when you have a beef consensus the threshold for liveness it feels among things i know at the moment it seems like you know threshold signatures are the are threshold encryption's the best but it doesn't seem like it's going to hold for a proof of work or yeah proof work chain or avalanche so i don't know if there's any nice abstraction layer to get other than yours a summary table but i would love to hear um feels uh and alejo's thoughts on this hi davis um so so um i guess this is a question directly directed to uh research question number three on paper one sorry what was the question again i'm uh like also working on a paper deadline and kind of zoning in and out not that i'm not listening but i don't know the concrete question um i think to perhaps sunny sunny's uh question kind of summed it up pretty well in how do we frame question research question number three so it actually isn't meaningful it's meaningful to uh to the paper one which uh mostly focus on flashbacks architecture or maybe um alejo you have a better way of framing uh maybe uh sunny and dave's question yeah i think that that point makes sense that like it is a little bit of its own thing um i think it does relate to paper one and you know i don't necessarily think the papers have to be like a religious organizing metric and like paper one could just call out the fact that this is an issue because i do think it's like somewhat relevant to what our system will eventually do if we want to like respond to these changes um that people will probably make in other especially in other chains um so i think it'll probably be relevant to mention in paper one whether it's gonna be like super under paper one like i don't know um like i'm i think that will naturally evolve if you guys are interested in taking that and reorganizing it or someone else's um you know i think that's also same but i don't think we were gonna do a super at least my intention when i originally wrote that document was not to be super deep in paper one uh and kind of like leave it as a future work for like a next paper which i think is consistent with what you're suggesting is uh the best way to approach it is my understanding of that clear because i think i got all the concerns but i just want to make sure that i'm actually addressing the question yeah i think that that's a high level uh definitely i think it's still um it's uh like we're trying to find a solution in terms of like what is the depth that we go into in terms of alternative basically or and what is the worthwhile question that actually pertains to auction mechanism design for me auction um which is what paper one is about right so essentially i think it's like i guess perhaps to throw a proposal out there but once again i want to hear more from dan from uh you know author from you know everyone else on this call from specifically so i see like perhaps a survey of letter sorry alternative architecture um your audio is really bad again tina slowly um well maybe um can someone else take over my vocal i'll just type my question i guess one question i had was like how what what level of detail like detail of this question of this answer would go in favor what is it like you know we could just say like does this art that does the uh flashbots design work on all chain architectures and you know we could just try to answer that simply like that or you know we could take it a step further and say like okay well providing examples of like architectures where it doesn't work okay we could do that or we could be like even more detail like explain why it doesn't work in those architectures okay or we can go even further that than that which is like um like you know modify the flashbox architecture to work in these uh architectures and so it's like i guess my question is what level of detail do we want from in paper one yeah i think that's also like up to you guys from my perspective because like you said paper one is kind of like first order engineering focused in some way like it's describing the system it's like kind of like a white paper etc i think the most important thing to have in there is like a things that are directly relevant to like early days so like for example a lot of people will ask things like doesn't eth2 just get rid of this or like sharding solves this or you just do optimism roll up and uh you know blah blah blah so i think we'll need to answer those like practical questions of like the things people are actually doing like in the very near future how does this affect uh like how does it change uh all everything we're talking about um i think the longer term like fundamental theory of like what is the real difference between these systems and various chains and like how does this really like how do we think about this problem and like designing systems that doesn't have to be in paper one from my perspective and can just be like called out as like these are all unanswered questions in like future work and then we work on it separately but like none of that is set in stone so really like from my perspective i'm happy to include whatever but i think the scope of paper one is is like gonna be like kind of defending a design and uh part of that is just like answering low hanging fruit questions about like if the system changes a little bit or if we just add like a commit reveal to the protocol whatever it might be um you know we kind of want to say that like this is more fundamental than that um if that makes sense okay so it's basically describe the chain architect the requirements of a chain architecture in which this splashbox design works and then you know maybe we can say that there are we know of architectures where it doesn't but you know that's out of describing those as out of scope for this paper yeah pretty much got it yeah but again like it's very open-ended so if you feel like there's something you want to say that's like out of not in that scope that's also fine i think we just kind of want to give some broad color to the community about why we think this is a good idea to build in paper one are you back tina we're also over time so maybe we should yes i'm back i'm all i could hear you guys all pretty well so sorry about my spotty vocal um so i think everything um actually that's uh i think a lot more there um than where it started so um i guess the next step is that we have another research workshop next week um we haven't really dived into paper two although authors um separate frp um will be the uh the bulk of it also one thing that's under address a little bit is the current paper um but i think soraya is working on it right now is kind of the auction uh part and he's done the literature review for it and uh or he's going to do the literature review and uh so i think how what is the expectation there um perhaps we want to address it a bit more in the frp as well so i think overall um let's um leave it here for now um perhaps uh what um alejo and the flashbacks team we will work on iterating and updating some of the research process for more clarity to address some of the concerns and questions raised here and um folks who's on the call who's already submitting frp or is planning on submitting frp um please go ahead and make updated changes and when you feel ready um just uh you know create a pr for the frp for the flash monster recall yeah and if you guys have any meta comments like everyone here and involved at this stage i think is like a relatively independent senior level research at least capable actor so like please send comments especially to tina alex and me about like how we can change this process or if there's any overhead that would help you to remove and things like that we want it to be minimal and like incur as little overhead as possible for organizing things exactly well no more questions well um let's leave it here thank you guys see you guys see you thanks for taking the time you 